**编号**: [1]
标题:  DiffusionMTL: Learning Multi-Task Denoising Diffusion Model from  Partially Annotated Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15389
作者:  Hanrong Ye,  Dan Xu
备注:  The paper is accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:Recently, there has been an increased interest in the practical problem of learning multiple dense scene understanding tasks from partially annotated data, where each training sample is only labeled for a subset of the tasks. The missing of task labels in training leads to low-quality and noisy predictions, as can be observed from state-of-the-art methods. To tackle this issue, we reformulate the partially-labeled multi-task dense prediction as a pixel-level denoising problem, and propose a novel multi-task denoising diffusion framework coined as DiffusionMTL. It designs a joint diffusion and denoising paradigm to model a potential noisy distribution in the task prediction or feature maps and generate rectified outputs for different tasks. To exploit multi-task consistency in denoising, we further introduce a Multi-Task Conditioning strategy, which can implicitly utilize the complementary nature of the tasks to help learn the unlabeled tasks, leading to an improvement in the denoising performance of the different tasks. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate that the proposed multi-task denoising diffusion model can significantly improve multi-task prediction maps, and outperform the state-of-the-art methods on three challenging multi-task benchmarks, under two different partial-labeling evaluation settings. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [2]
标题:  LLaVA-PruMerge: Adaptive Token Reduction for Efficient Large Multimodal  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15388
作者:  Yuzhang Shang,  Mu Cai,  Bingxin Xu,  Yong Jae Lee,  Yan Yan
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) have shown significant reasoning capabilities by connecting a visual encoder and a large language model. LMMs typically use a fixed amount of visual tokens, such as the penultimate layer features in the CLIP visual encoder, as the prefix content. Recent LMMs incorporate more complex visual inputs, such as high-resolution images and videos, which increase the number of visual tokens significantly. However, due to the design of the Transformer architecture, computational costs associated with these models tend to increase quadratically with the number of input tokens. To tackle this problem, we explore a token reduction mechanism and find, similar to prior work, that many visual tokens are spatially redundant. Based on this, we propose PruMerge, a novel adaptive visual token reduction approach, which largely reduces the number of visual tokens while maintaining comparable model performance. We first select the unpruned visual tokens based on their similarity to class tokens and spatial tokens. We then cluster the pruned tokens based on key similarity and merge the clustered tokens with the unpruned tokens to supplement their information. Empirically, when applied to LLaVA-1.5, our approach can compress the visual tokens by 14.4 times on average, and achieve comparable performance across diverse visual question-answering and reasoning tasks. Code and checkpoints are at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [3]
标题:  LATTE3D: Large-scale Amortized Text-To-Enhanced3D Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15385
作者:  Kevin Xie,  Jonathan Lorraine,  Tianshi Cao,  Jun Gao,  James Lucas,  Antonio Torralba,  Sanja Fidler,  Xiaohui Zeng
备注:  See the project website at this https URL
Abstract:Recent text-to-3D generation approaches produce impressive 3D results but require time-consuming optimization that can take up to an hour per prompt. Amortized methods like ATT3D optimize multiple prompts simultaneously to improve efficiency, enabling fast text-to-3D synthesis. However, they cannot capture high-frequency geometry and texture details and struggle to scale to large prompt sets, so they generalize poorly. We introduce LATTE3D, addressing these limitations to achieve fast, high-quality generation on a significantly larger prompt set. Key to our method is 1) building a scalable architecture and 2) leveraging 3D data during optimization through 3D-aware diffusion priors, shape regularization, and model initialization to achieve robustness to diverse and complex training prompts. LATTE3D amortizes both neural field and textured surface generation to produce highly detailed textured meshes in a single forward pass. LATTE3D generates 3D objects in 400ms, and can be further enhanced with fast test-time optimization.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [4]
标题:  ThemeStation: Generating Theme-Aware 3D Assets from Few Exemplars
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15383
作者:  Zhenwei Wang,  Tengfei Wang,  Gerhard Hancke,  Ziwei Liu,  Rynson W.H. Lau
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Real-world applications often require a large gallery of 3D assets that share a consistent theme. While remarkable advances have been made in general 3D content creation from text or image, synthesizing customized 3D assets following the shared theme of input 3D exemplars remains an open and challenging problem. In this work, we present ThemeStation, a novel approach for theme-aware 3D-to-3D generation. ThemeStation synthesizes customized 3D assets based on given few exemplars with two goals: 1) unity for generating 3D assets that thematically align with the given exemplars and 2) diversity for generating 3D assets with a high degree of variations. To this end, we design a two-stage framework that draws a concept image first, followed by a reference-informed 3D modeling stage. We propose a novel dual score distillation (DSD) loss to jointly leverage priors from both the input exemplars and the synthesized concept image. Extensive experiments and user studies confirm that ThemeStation surpasses prior works in producing diverse theme-aware 3D models with impressive quality. ThemeStation also enables various applications such as controllable 3D-to-3D generation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [5]
标题:  DragAPart: Learning a Part-Level Motion Prior for Articulated Objects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15382
作者:  Ruining Li,  Chuanxia Zheng,  Christian Rupprecht,  Andrea Vedaldi
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:We introduce DragAPart, a method that, given an image and a set of drags as input, can generate a new image of the same object in a new state, compatible with the action of the drags. Differently from prior works that focused on repositioning objects, DragAPart predicts part-level interactions, such as opening and closing a drawer. We study this problem as a proxy for learning a generalist motion model, not restricted to a specific kinematic structure or object category. To this end, we start from a pre-trained image generator and fine-tune it on a new synthetic dataset, Drag-a-Move, which we introduce. Combined with a new encoding for the drags and dataset randomization, the new model generalizes well to real images and different categories. Compared to prior motion-controlled generators, we demonstrate much better part-level motion understanding.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [6]
标题:  Control Designs for Critical-Continegency Responsible Grid-Following  Inverters and Seamless Transitions To and From Grid-Forming Modes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15380
作者:  Jaesang Park,  Alireza Askarian,  Srinivasa Salapaka
备注:  6 pages, 6 figures, submitted and accepted for 2024 American Control Conference (ACC)
Abstract:This article introduces two control frameworks: one for Grid-Following (GFL) inverters aiding Grid-Forming (GFM) inverters in voltage regulation during large contingency events and optimizing power transactions under normal conditions; and another for seamless transitions between grid-tied and grid-isolated setups, managing voltage transient characteristics. In microgrids, GFM inverters regulate voltage, while GFL inverters handle power transactions. The proposed GFL control detects abrupt load/generation changes, adjusting power transactions using local storage to support GFM inverters during contingencies. Additionally, a transition control ensures smooth GFL-GFM shifts, reducing power and voltage fluctuations. Simulation results validate improved voltage regulation during contingencies and enhanced power tracking during slow changes, alongside minimized transient overshoot.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [7]
标题:  Long-CLIP: Unlocking the Long-Text Capability of CLIP
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15378
作者:  Beichen Zhang,  Pan Zhang,  Xiaoyi Dong,  Yuhang Zang,  Jiaqi Wang
备注:  All codes and models are publicly available at this https URL
Abstract:Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has been the cornerstone for zero-shot classification, text-image retrieval, and text-image generation by aligning image and text modalities. Despite its widespread adoption, a significant limitation of CLIP lies in the inadequate length of text input. The length of the text token is restricted to 77, and an empirical study shows the actual effective length is even less than 20. This prevents CLIP from handling detailed descriptions, limiting its applications for image retrieval and text-to-image generation with extensive prerequisites. To this end, we propose Long-CLIP as a plug-and-play alternative to CLIP that supports long-text input, retains or even surpasses its zero-shot generalizability, and aligns the CLIP latent space, making it readily replace CLIP without any further adaptation in downstream frameworks. Nevertheless, achieving this goal is far from straightforward, as simplistic fine-tuning can result in a significant degradation of CLIP's performance. Moreover, substituting the text encoder with a language model supporting longer contexts necessitates pretraining with vast amounts of data, incurring significant expenses. Accordingly, Long-CLIP introduces an efficient fine-tuning solution on CLIP with two novel strategies designed to maintain the original capabilities, including (1) a knowledge-preserved stretching of positional embedding and (2) a primary component matching of CLIP features. With leveraging just one million extra long text-image pairs, Long-CLIP has shown the superiority to CLIP for about 20% in long caption text-image retrieval and 6% in traditional text-image retrieval tasks, e.g., COCO and Flickr30k. Furthermore, Long-CLIP offers enhanced capabilities for generating images from detailed text descriptions by replacing CLIP in a plug-and-play manner.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [8]
标题:  InternVideo2: Scaling Video Foundation Models for Multimodal Video  Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15377
作者:  Yi Wang,  Kunchang Li,  Xinhao Li,  Jiashuo Yu,  Yinan He,  Guo Chen,  Baoqi Pei,  Rongkun Zheng,  Jilan Xu,  Zun Wang,  Yansong Shi,  Tianxiang Jiang,  Songze Li,  Hongjie Zhang,  Yifei Huang,  Yu Qiao,  Yali Wang,  Limin Wang
备注:  a technical report about video understanding
Abstract:We introduce InternVideo2, a new video foundation model (ViFM) that achieves the state-of-the-art performance in action recognition, video-text tasks, and video-centric dialogue. Our approach employs a progressive training paradigm that unifies the different self- or weakly-supervised learning frameworks of masked video token reconstruction, cross-modal contrastive learning, and next token prediction. Different training stages would guide our model to capture different levels of structure and semantic information through different pretext tasks. At the data level, we prioritize the spatiotemporal consistency by semantically segmenting videos and generating video-audio-speech captions. This improves the alignment between video and text. We scale both data and model size for our InternVideo2. Through extensive experiments, we validate our designs and demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance on over 60 video and audio tasks. Notably, our model outperforms others on various video-related captioning, dialogue, and long video understanding benchmarks, highlighting its ability to reason and comprehend long temporal contexts. Code and models are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [9]
标题:  A Modular, End-to-End Next-Generation Network Testbed: Towards a Fully  Automated Network Management Platform
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15376
作者:  Ali Chouman,  Dimitrios Michael Manias,  Abdallah Shami
备注:  This paper was submitted to IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management
Abstract:Experimentation in practical, end-to-end (E2E) next-generation networks deployments is becoming increasingly prevalent and significant in the realm of modern networking and wireless communications research. The prevalence of fifth-generation technology (5G) testbeds and the emergence of developing networks systems, for the purposes of research and testing, focus on the capabilities and features of analytics, intelligence, and automated management using novel testbed designs and architectures, ranging from simple simulations and setups to complex networking systems; however, with the ever-demanding application requirements for modern and future networks, 5G-and-beyond (denoted as 5G+) testbed experimentation can be useful in assessing the creation of large-scale network infrastructures that are capable of supporting E2E virtualized mobile network services. To this end, this paper presents a functional, modular E2E 5G+ system, complete with the integration of a Radio Access Network (RAN) and handling the connection of User Equipment (UE) in real-world scenarios. As well, this paper assesses and evaluates the effectiveness of emulating full network functionalities and capabilities, including a complete description of user-plane data, from UE registrations to communications sequences, and leads to the presentation of a future outlook in powering new experimentation for 6G and next-generation networks.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [10]
标题:  Enhancing Testing at Meta with Rich-State Simulated Populations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15374
作者:  Nadia Alshahwan,  Arianna Blasi,  Kinga Bojarczuk,  Andrea Ciancone,  Natalija Gucevska,  Mark Harman,  Simon Schellaert,  Inna Harper,  Yue Jia,  Michał Królikowski,  Will Lewis,  Dragos Martac,  Rubmary Rojas,  Kate Ustiuzhanina
备注:  ICSE 2024
Abstract:This paper reports the results of the deployment of Rich-State Simulated Populations at Meta for both automated and manual testing. We use simulated users (aka test users) to mimic user interactions and acquire state in much the same way that real user accounts acquire state. For automated testing, we present empirical results from deployment on the Facebook, Messenger, and Instagram apps for iOS and Android Platforms. These apps consist of tens of millions of lines of code, communicating with hundreds of millions of lines of backend code, and are used by over 2 billion people every day. Our results reveal that rich state increases average code coverage by 38\%, and endpoint coverage by 61\%. More importantly, it also yields an average increase of 115\% in the faults found by automated testing. The rich-state test user populations are also deployed in a (continually evolving) Test Universe; a web-enabled simulation platform for privacy-safe manual testing, which has been used by over 21,000 Meta engineers since its deployment in November 2022.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [11]
标题:  Can large language models explore in-context?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15371
作者:  Akshay Krishnamurthy,  Keegan Harris,  Dylan J. Foster,  Cyril Zhang,  Aleksandrs Slivkins
备注:  
Abstract:We investigate the extent to which contemporary Large Language Models (LLMs) can engage in exploration, a core capability in reinforcement learning and decision making. We focus on native performance of existing LLMs, without training interventions. We deploy LLMs as agents in simple multi-armed bandit environments, specifying the environment description and interaction history entirely in-context, i.e., within the LLM prompt. We experiment with GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Llama2, using a variety of prompt designs, and find that the models do not robustly engage in exploration without substantial interventions: i) Across all of our experiments, only one configuration resulted in satisfactory exploratory behavior: GPT-4 with chain-of-thought reasoning and an externally summarized interaction history, presented as sufficient statistics; ii) All other configurations did not result in robust exploratory behavior, including those with chain-of-thought reasoning but unsummarized history. Although these findings can be interpreted positively, they suggest that external summarization -- which may not be possible in more complex settings -- is important for obtaining desirable behavior from LLM agents. We conclude that non-trivial algorithmic interventions, such as fine-tuning or dataset curation, may be required to empower LLM-based decision making agents in complex settings.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [12]
标题:  Augmented Reality based Simulated Data (ARSim) with multi-view  consistency for AV perception networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15370
作者:  Aqeel Anwar,  Tae Eun Choe,  Zian Wang,  Sanja Fidler,  Minwoo Park
备注:  17 pages, 15 figures, 7 tables
Abstract:Detecting a diverse range of objects under various driving scenarios is essential for the effectiveness of autonomous driving systems. However, the real-world data collected often lacks the necessary diversity presenting a long-tail distribution. Although synthetic data has been utilized to overcome this issue by generating virtual scenes, it faces hurdles such as a significant domain gap and the substantial efforts required from 3D artists to create realistic environments. To overcome these challenges, we present ARSim, a fully automated, comprehensive, modular framework designed to enhance real multi-view image data with 3D synthetic objects of interest. The proposed method integrates domain adaptation and randomization strategies to address covariate shift between real and simulated data by inferring essential domain attributes from real data and employing simulation-based randomization for other attributes. We construct a simplified virtual scene using real data and strategically place 3D synthetic assets within it. Illumination is achieved by estimating light distribution from multiple images capturing the surroundings of the vehicle. Camera parameters from real data are employed to render synthetic assets in each frame. The resulting augmented multi-view consistent dataset is used to train a multi-camera perception network for autonomous vehicles. Experimental results on various AV perception tasks demonstrate the superior performance of networks trained on the augmented dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [13]
标题:  OceanPlan: Hierarchical Planning and Replanning for Natural Language AUV  Piloting in Large-scale Unexplored Ocean Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15369
作者:  Ruochu Yang,  Fumin Zhang,  Mengxue Hou
备注:  submitted to IROS 2024
Abstract:We develop a hierarchical LLM-task-motion planning and replanning framework to efficiently ground an abstracted human command into tangible Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) control through enhanced representations of the world. We also incorporate a holistic replanner to provide real-world feedback with all planners for robust AUV operation. While there has been extensive research in bridging the gap between LLMs and robotic missions, they are unable to guarantee success of AUV applications in the vast and unknown ocean environment. To tackle specific challenges in marine robotics, we design a hierarchical planner to compose executable motion plans, which achieves planning efficiency and solution quality by decomposing long-horizon missions into sub-tasks. At the same time, real-time data stream is obtained by a replanner to address environmental uncertainties during plan execution. Experiments validate that our proposed framework delivers successful AUV performance of long-duration missions through natural language piloting.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [14]
标题:  Closing the Information Gap in Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena (UAP)  Studies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15368
作者:  Gretchen R. Stahlman
备注:  iConference 2024
Abstract:Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena (UAP), also known as Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs), has shifted from being a stigmatized topic on the fringes of scientific inquiry to a legitimate subject of scientific interest with a need for high quality, curated data, and rigorous scientific investigation. This paper presents a preliminary scoping review and analysis of scholarly literature related to UAP from 1967 until 2023, exploring a diverse range of research areas across disciplines to illustrate scholarly discourse about the topic. The paper focuses on characterizing papers published in recent years and notes that Library & Information Science is unrepresented in the current UAP literature. The paper also discusses how researchers across the iFields can contribute to UAP studies through inherent expertise such as data curation and data science as well as information behavior and information literacy, among others. The paper concludes by emphasizing that UAP Studies offer a rich intellectual realm for information science research, with the iFields well positioned to play a crucial role in supporting and engaging in the study of UAP.
Subjects: Digital Libraries (cs.DL); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [15]
标题:  Fourier Transform-based Estimators for Data Sketches
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15366
作者:  Seth Pettie,  Dingyu Wang
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper we consider the problem of estimating the $f$-moment ($\sum_{v\in [n]} (f(\mathbf{x}(v))-f(0))$) of a dynamic vector $\mathbf{x}\in \mathbb{G}^n$ over some abelian group $(\mathbb{G},+)$, where the $\|f\|_\infty$ norm is bounded. We propose a simple sketch and new estimation framework based on the \emph{Fourier transform} of $f$. I.e., we decompose $f$ into a linear combination of homomorphisms $f_1,f_2,\ldots$ from $(\mathbb{G},+)$ to $(\mathbb{C},\times)$, estimate the $f_k$-moment for each $f_k$, and synthesize them to obtain an estimate of the $f$-moment. Our estimators are asymptotically unbiased and have variance asymptotic to $\|\mathbf{x}\|_0^2 (\|f\|_\infty^2 m^{-1} + \|\hat{f}\|_1^2 m^{-2})$, where the size of the sketch is $O(m\log n\log|\mathbb{G}|)$ bits. When $\mathbb{G}=\mathbb{Z}$ this problem can also be solved using off-the-shelf $\ell_0$-samplers with space $O(m\log^2 n)$ bits, which does not obviously generalize to finite groups. As a concrete benchmark, we extend Ganguly, Garofalakis, and Rastogi's singleton-detector-based sampler to work over $\mathbb{G}$ using $O(m\log n\log|\mathbb{G}|\log(m\log n))$ bits. We give some experimental evidence that the Fourier-based estimation framework is significantly more accurate than sampling-based approaches at the same memory footprint.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Databases (cs.DB); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [16]
标题:  A Transfer Attack to Image Watermarks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15365
作者:  Yuepeng Hu,  Zhengyuan Jiang,  Moyang Guo,  Neil Gong
备注:  
Abstract:Watermark has been widely deployed by industry to detect AI-generated images. The robustness of such watermark-based detector against evasion attacks in the white-box and black-box settings is well understood in the literature. However, the robustness in the no-box setting is much less understood. In particular, multiple studies claimed that image watermark is robust in such setting. In this work, we propose a new transfer evasion attack to image watermark in the no-box setting. Our transfer attack adds a perturbation to a watermarked image to evade multiple surrogate watermarking models trained by the attacker itself, and the perturbed watermarked image also evades the target watermarking model. Our major contribution is to show that, both theoretically and empirically, watermark-based AI-generated image detector is not robust to evasion attacks even if the attacker does not have access to the watermarking model nor the detection API.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [17]
标题:  Towards Knowledge-Grounded Natural Language Understanding and Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15364
作者:  Chenxi Whitehouse
备注:  PhD Thesis
Abstract:This thesis investigates how natural language understanding and generation with transformer models can benefit from grounding the models with knowledge representations and addresses the following key research questions: (i) Can knowledge of entities extend its benefits beyond entity-centric tasks, such as entity linking? (ii) How can we faithfully and effectively extract such structured knowledge from raw text, especially noisy web text? (iii) How do other types of knowledge, beyond structured knowledge, contribute to improving NLP tasks? Studies in this thesis find that incorporating relevant and up-to-date knowledge of entities benefits fake news detection, and entity-focused code-switching significantly enhances zero-shot cross-lingual transfer on entity-centric tasks. In terms of effective and faithful approaches to extracting structured knowledge, it is observed that integrating negative examples and training with entity planning significantly improves performance. Additionally, it is established that other general forms of knowledge, such as parametric and distilled knowledge, enhance multimodal and multilingual knowledge-intensive tasks. This research shows the tangible benefits of diverse knowledge integration and motivates further exploration in this direction.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [18]
标题:  Cascading Blackout Severity Prediction with Statistically-Augmented  Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15363
作者:  Joe Gorka,  Tim Hsu,  Wenting Li,  Yury Maximov,  Line Roald
备注:  Accepted to Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC) 2024
Abstract:Higher variability in grid conditions, resulting from growing renewable penetration and increased incidence of extreme weather events, has increased the difficulty of screening for scenarios that may lead to catastrophic cascading failures. Traditional power-flow-based tools for assessing cascading blackout risk are too slow to properly explore the space of possible failures and load/generation patterns. We add to the growing literature of faster graph-neural-network (GNN)-based techniques, developing two novel techniques for the estimation of blackout magnitude from initial grid conditions. First we propose several methods for employing an initial classification step to filter out safe "non blackout" scenarios prior to magnitude estimation. Second, using insights from the statistical properties of cascading blackouts, we propose a method for facilitating non-local message passing in our GNN models. We validate these two approaches on a large simulated dataset, and show the potential of both to increase blackout size estimation performance.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [19]
标题:  CoLLEGe: Concept Embedding Generation for Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15362
作者:  Ryan Teehan,  Brenden Lake,  Mengye Ren
备注:  
Abstract:Current language models are unable to quickly learn new concepts on the fly, often requiring a more involved finetuning process to learn robustly. Prompting in-context is not robust to context distractions, and often fails to confer much information about the new concepts. Classic methods for few-shot word learning in NLP, relying on global word vectors, are less applicable to large language models. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach named CoLLEGe (Concept Learning with Language Embedding Generation) to modernize few-shot concept learning. CoLLEGe is a meta-learning framework capable of generating flexible embeddings for new concepts using a small number of example sentences or definitions. Our primary meta-learning objective is simply to facilitate a language model to make next word predictions in forthcoming sentences, making it compatible with language model pretraining. We design a series of tasks to test new concept learning in challenging real-world scenarios, including new word acquisition, definition inference, and verbal reasoning, and demonstrate that our method succeeds in each setting without task-specific training.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [20]
标题:  Learning Topological Representations for Deep Image Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15361
作者:  Xiaoling Hu
备注:  Ph.D. thesis from Stony Brook University. This thesis includes works arXiv:1906.05404, arXiv:2110.08335, arXiv:2112.07812, arXiv:2103.09992, arXiv:2206.01742
Abstract:In many scenarios, especially biomedical applications, the correct delineation of complex fine-scaled structures such as neurons, tissues, and vessels is critical for downstream analysis. Despite the strong predictive power of deep learning methods, they do not provide a satisfactory representation of these structures, thus creating significant barriers in scalable annotation and downstream analysis. In this dissertation, we tackle such challenges by proposing novel representations of these topological structures in a deep learning framework. We leverage the mathematical tools from topological data analysis, i.e., persistent homology and discrete Morse theory, to develop principled methods for better segmentation and uncertainty estimation, which will become powerful tools for scalable annotation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [21]
标题:  SiMBA: Simplified Mamba-Based Architecture for Vision and Multivariate  Time series
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15360
作者:  Badri N. Patro,  Vijay S. Agneeswaran
备注:  
Abstract:Transformers have widely adopted attention networks for sequence mixing and MLPs for channel mixing, playing a pivotal role in achieving breakthroughs across domains. However, recent literature highlights issues with attention networks, including low inductive bias and quadratic complexity concerning input sequence length. State Space Models (SSMs) like S4 and others (Hippo, Global Convolutions, liquid S4, LRU, Mega, and Mamba), have emerged to address the above issues to help handle longer sequence lengths. Mamba, while being the state-of-the-art SSM, has a stability issue when scaled to large networks for computer vision datasets. We propose SiMBA, a new architecture that introduces Einstein FFT (EinFFT) for channel modeling by specific eigenvalue computations and uses the Mamba block for sequence modeling. Extensive performance studies across image and time-series benchmarks demonstrate that SiMBA outperforms existing SSMs, bridging the performance gap with state-of-the-art transformers. Notably, SiMBA establishes itself as the new state-of-the-art SSM on ImageNet and transfer learning benchmarks such as Stanford Car and Flower as well as task learning benchmarks as well as seven time series benchmark datasets. The project page is available on this website ~\url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [22]
标题:  Neural Plasticity-Inspired Foundation Model for Observing the Earth  Crossing Modalities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15356
作者:  Zhitong Xiong,  Yi Wang,  Fahong Zhang,  Adam J. Stewart,  Joëlle Hanna,  Damian Borth,  Ioannis Papoutsis,  Bertrand Le Saux,  Gustau Camps-Valls,  Xiao Xiang Zhu
备注:  33 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:The development of foundation models has revolutionized our ability to interpret the Earth's surface using satellite observational data. Traditional models have been siloed, tailored to specific sensors or data types like optical, radar, and hyperspectral, each with its own unique characteristics. This specialization hinders the potential for a holistic analysis that could benefit from the combined strengths of these diverse data sources. Our novel approach introduces the Dynamic One-For-All (DOFA) model, leveraging the concept of neural plasticity in brain science to integrate various data modalities into a single framework adaptively. This dynamic hypernetwork, adjusting to different wavelengths, enables a single versatile Transformer jointly trained on data from five sensors to excel across 12 distinct Earth observation tasks, including sensors never seen during pretraining. DOFA's innovative design offers a promising leap towards more accurate, efficient, and unified Earth observation analysis, showcasing remarkable adaptability and performance in harnessing the potential of multimodal Earth observation data.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [23]
标题:  Fully automated workflow for the design of patient-specific orthopaedic  implants: application to total knee arthroplasty
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15353
作者:  Aziliz Guezou-Philippe,  Arnaud Clavé,  Ehouarn Maguet,  Ludivine Maintier,  Charles Garraud,  Jean-Rassaire Fouefack,  Valérie Burdin,  Eric Stindel,  Guillaume Dardenne
备注:  
Abstract:Arthroplasty is commonly performed to treat joint osteoarthritis, reducing pain and improving mobility. While arthroplasty has known several technical improvements, a significant share of patients are still unsatisfied with their surgery. Personalised arthroplasty improves surgical outcomes however current solutions require delays, making it difficult to integrate in clinical routine. We propose a fully automated workflow to design patient-specific implants, presented for total knee arthroplasty, the most widely performed arthroplasty in the world nowadays. The proposed pipeline first uses artificial neural networks to segment the proximal and distal extremities of the femur and tibia. Then the full bones are reconstructed using augmented statistical shape models, combining shape and landmarks information. Finally, 77 morphological parameters are computed to design patient-specific implants. The developed workflow has been trained using 91 CT scans of lower limb and evaluated on 41 CT scans manually segmented, in terms of accuracy and execution time. The workflow accuracy was $0.4\pm0.2mm$ for the segmentation, $1.2\pm0.4mm$ for the full bones reconstruction, and $2.8\pm2.2mm$ for the anatomical landmarks determination. The custom implants fitted the patients' anatomy with $0.6\pm0.2mm$ accuracy. The whole process from segmentation to implants' design lasted about 5 minutes. The proposed workflow allows for a fast and reliable personalisation of knee implants, directly from the patient CT image without requiring any manual intervention. It establishes a patient-specific pre-operative planning for TKA in a very short time making it easily available for all patients. Combined with efficient implant manufacturing techniques, this solution could help answer the growing number of arthroplasties while reducing complications and improving the patients' satisfaction.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [24]
标题:  Multi-Review Fusion-in-Context
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15351
作者:  Aviv Slobodkin,  Ori Shapira,  Ran Levy,  Ido Dagan
备注:  NAACL 2024, findings
Abstract:Grounded text generation, encompassing tasks such as long-form question-answering and summarization, necessitates both content selection and content consolidation. Current end-to-end methods are difficult to control and interpret due to their opaqueness. Accordingly, recent works have proposed a modular approach, with separate components for each step. Specifically, we focus on the second subtask, of generating coherent text given pre-selected content in a multi-document setting. Concretely, we formalize \textit{Fusion-in-Context} (FiC) as a standalone task, whose input consists of source texts with highlighted spans of targeted content. A model then needs to generate a coherent passage that includes all and only the target information. Our work includes the development of a curated dataset of 1000 instances in the reviews domain, alongside a novel evaluation framework for assessing the faithfulness and coverage of highlights, which strongly correlate to human judgment. Several baseline models exhibit promising outcomes and provide insightful analyses. This study lays the groundwork for further exploration of modular text generation in the multi-document setting, offering potential improvements in the quality and reliability of generated content. \footnote{Our benchmark, FuseReviews, including the dataset, evaluation framework and designated leaderboard, can be found at \url{this https URL}.}
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [25]
标题:  Collaborative AI Teaming in Unknown Environments via Active Goal  Deduction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15341
作者:  Zuyuan Zhang,  Hanhan Zhou,  Mahdi Imani,  Taeyoung Lee,  Tian Lan
备注:  
Abstract:With the advancements of artificial intelligence (AI), we're seeing more scenarios that require AI to work closely with other agents, whose goals and strategies might not be known beforehand. However, existing approaches for training collaborative agents often require defined and known reward signals and cannot address the problem of teaming with unknown agents that often have latent objectives/rewards. In response to this challenge, we propose teaming with unknown agents framework, which leverages kernel density Bayesian inverse learning method for active goal deduction and utilizes pre-trained, goal-conditioned policies to enable zero-shot policy adaptation. We prove that unbiased reward estimates in our framework are sufficient for optimal teaming with unknown agents. We further evaluate the framework of redesigned multi-agent particle and StarCraft II micromanagement environments with diverse unknown agents of different behaviors/rewards. Empirical results demonstrate that our framework significantly advances the teaming performance of AI and unknown agents in a wide range of collaborative scenarios.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [26]
标题:  Safe and Stable Teleoperation of Quadrotor UAVs under Haptic Shared  Autonomy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15335
作者:  Dawei Zhang,  Roberto Tron
备注:  
Abstract:We present a novel approach that aims to address both safety and stability of a haptic teleoperation system within a framework of Haptic Shared Autonomy (HSA). We use Control Barrier Functions (CBFs) to generate the control input that follows the user's input as closely as possible while guaranteeing safety. In the context of stability of the human-in-the-loop system, we limit the force feedback perceived by the user via a small $L_2$-gain, which is achieved by limiting the control and the force feedback via a differential constraint. Specifically, with the property of HSA, we propose two pathways to design the control and the force feedback: Sequential Control Force (SCF) and Joint Control Force (JCF). Both designs can achieve safety and stability but with different responses to the user's commands. We conducted experimental simulations to evaluate and investigate the properties of the designed methods. We also tested the proposed method on a physical quadrotor UAV and a haptic interface.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [27]
标题:  Gesture-Controlled Aerial Robot Formation for Human-Swarm Interaction in  Safety Monitoring Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15333
作者:  Vít Krátký,  Giuseppe Silano,  Matouš Vrba,  Christos Papaioannidis,  Ioannis Mademlis,  Robert Pěnička,  Ioannis Pitas,  Martin Saska
备注:  8 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:This paper presents a formation control approach for contactless gesture-based Human-Swarm Interaction (HSI) between a team of multi-rotor Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and a human worker. The approach is intended for monitoring the safety of human workers, especially those working at heights. In the proposed dynamic formation scheme, one UAV acts as the leader of the formation and is equipped with sensors for human worker detection and gesture recognition. The follower UAVs maintain a predetermined formation relative to the worker's position, thereby providing additional perspectives of the monitored scene. Hand gestures allow the human worker to specify movements and action commands for the UAV team and initiate other mission-related commands without the need for an additional communication channel or specific markers. Together with a novel unified human detection and tracking algorithm, human pose estimation approach and gesture detection pipeline, the proposed approach forms a first instance of an HSI system incorporating all these modules onboard real-world UAVs. Simulations and field experiments with three UAVs and a human worker in a mock-up scenario showcase the effectiveness and responsiveness of the proposed approach.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [28]
标题:  Selectively Informative Description can Reduce Undesired Embedding  Entanglements in Text-to-Image Personalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15330
作者:  Jimyeong Kim,  Jungwon Park,  Wonjong Rhee
备注:  Published at CVPR 2024
Abstract:In text-to-image personalization, a timely and crucial challenge is the tendency of generated images overfitting to the biases present in the reference images. We initiate our study with a comprehensive categorization of the biases into background, nearby-object, tied-object, substance (in style re-contextualization), and pose biases. These biases manifest in the generated images due to their entanglement into the subject embedding. This undesired embedding entanglement not only results in the reflection of biases from the reference images into the generated images but also notably diminishes the alignment of the generated images with the given generation prompt. To address this challenge, we propose SID~(Selectively Informative Description), a text description strategy that deviates from the prevalent approach of only characterizing the subject's class identification. SID is generated utilizing multimodal GPT-4 and can be seamlessly integrated into optimization-based models. We present comprehensive experimental results along with analyses of cross-attention maps, subject-alignment, non-subject-disentanglement, and text-alignment.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [29]
标题:  Optimal Data-Driven Prediction and Predictive Control using Signal  Matrix Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15329
作者:  Roy S. Smith,  Mohamed Abdalmoaty,  Mingzhou Yin
备注:  7 pages, 3 figures. Submitted to IEEE Control Systems Society Letters and the 2024 Conference on Decision and Control
Abstract:Data-driven control uses a past signal trajectory to characterise the input-output behaviour of a system. Willems' lemma provides a data-based prediction model allowing a control designer to bypass the step of identifying a state-space or transfer function model. This paper provides a more parsimonious formulation of Willems' lemma that separates the model into initial condition matching and predictive control design parts. This avoids the need for regularisers in the predictive control problem that are found in other data-driven predictive control methods. It also gives a closed form expression for the optimal (minimum variance) unbiased predictor of the future output trajectory and applies it for predictive control. Simulation comparisons illustrate very good control performance.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [30]
标题:  Cross-layer Modeling and Design of Content Addressable Memories in  Advanced Technology Nodes for Similarity Search
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15328
作者:  Siri Narla,  Piyush Kumar,  Mohammad Adnaan,  Azad Naeemi
备注:  7 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:In this paper we present a comprehensive design and benchmarking study of Content Addressable Memory (CAM) at the 7nm technology node in the context of similarity search applications. We design CAM cells based on SRAM, spin-orbit torque, and ferroelectric field effect transistor devices and from their layouts extract cell parasitics using state of the art EDA tools. These parasitics are used to develop SPICE netlists to model search operations. We use a CAM-based dataset search and a sequential recommendation system to highlight the application-level performance degradation due to interconnect parasitics. We propose and evaluate two solutions to mitigate interconnect effects.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)

**编号**: [31]
标题:  A Technological Perspective on Misuse of Available AI
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15325
作者:  Lukas Pöhler,  Valentin Schrader,  Alexander Ladwein,  Florian von Keller
备注:  Presented at the UN Meeting of the Group of Governmental Experts on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems, 30 August 2018
Abstract:Potential malicious misuse of civilian artificial intelligence (AI) poses serious threats to security on a national and international level. Besides defining autonomous systems from a technological viewpoint and explaining how AI development is characterized, we show how already existing and openly available AI technology could be misused. To underline this, we developed three exemplary use cases of potentially misused AI that threaten political, digital and physical security. The use cases can be built from existing AI technologies and components from academia, the private sector and the developer-community. This shows how freely available AI can be combined into autonomous weapon systems. Based on the use cases, we deduce points of control and further measures to prevent the potential threat through misused AI. Further, we promote the consideration of malicious misuse of civilian AI systems in the discussion on autonomous weapon systems (AWS).
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [32]
标题:  ProvDeploy: Provenance-oriented Containerization of High Performance  Computing Scientific Workflows
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15324
作者:  Liliane Kunstmann,  Débora Pina,  Daniel de Oliveira,  Marta Mattoso
备注:  
Abstract:Many existing scientific workflows require High Performance Computing environments to produce results in a timely manner. These workflows have several software library components and use different environments, making the deployment and execution of the software stack not trivial. This complexity increases if the user needs to add provenance data capture services to the workflow. This manuscript introduces ProvDeploy to assist the user in configuring containers for scientific workflows with integrated provenance data capture. ProvDeploy was evaluated with a Scientific Machine Learning workflow, exploring containerization strategies focused on provenance in two distinct HPC environments
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [33]
标题:  Introduction to Human-Robot Interaction: A Multi-Perspective  Introductory Course
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15323
作者:  Tom Williams
备注:  Presented at the Designing an Intro to HRI Course Workshop at HRI 2024 (arXiv:2403.05588)
Abstract:In this paper I describe the design of an introductory course in Human-Robot Interaction. This project-driven course is designed to introduce undergraduate and graduate engineering students, especially those enrolled in Computer Science, Mechanical Engineering, and Robotics degree programs, to key theories and methods used in the field of Human-Robot Interaction that they would otherwise be unlikely to see in those degree programs. To achieve this aim, the course takes students all the way from stakeholder analysis to empirical evaluation, covering and integrating key Qualitative, Design, Computational, and Quantitative methods along the way. I detail the goals, audience, and format of the course, and provide a detailed walkthrough of the course syllabus.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [34]
标题:  CO-Fun: A German Dataset on Company Outsourcing in Fund Prospectuses for  Named Entity Recognition and Relation Extraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15322
作者:  Neda Foroutan,  Markus Schröder,  Andreas Dengel
备注:  
Abstract:The process of cyber mapping gives insights in relationships among financial entities and service providers. Centered around the outsourcing practices of companies within fund prospectuses in Germany, we introduce a dataset specifically designed for named entity recognition and relation extraction tasks. The labeling process on 948 sentences was carried out by three experts which yields to 5,969 annotations for four entity types (Outsourcing, Company, Location and Software) and 4,102 relation annotations (Outsourcing-Company, Company-Location). State-of-the-art deep learning models were trained to recognize entities and extract relations showing first promising results. An anonymized version of the dataset, along with guidelines and the code used for model training, are publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [35]
标题:  Visual Highlighting for Situated Brushing and Linking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15321
作者:  Nina Doerr,  Benjamin Lee,  Katarina Baricova,  Dieter Schmalstieg,  Michael Sedlmair
备注:  To appear in EuroVis 2024
Abstract:Brushing and linking is widely used for visual analytics in desktop environments. However, using this approach to link many data items between situated (e.g., a virtual screen with data) and embedded views (e.g., highlighted objects in the physical environment) is largely unexplored. To this end, we study the effectiveness of visual highlighting techniques in helping users identify and link physical referents to brushed data marks in a situated scatterplot. In an exploratory virtual reality user study (N=20), we evaluated four highlighting techniques under different physical layouts and tasks. We discuss the effectiveness of these techniques, as well as implications for the design of brushing and linking operations in situated analytics.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [36]
标题:  Point-DETR3D: Leveraging Imagery Data with Spatial Point Prior for  Weakly Semi-supervised 3D Object Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15317
作者:  Hongzhi Gao,  Zheng Chen,  Zehui Chen,  Lin Chen,  Jiaming Liu,  Shanghang Zhang,  Feng Zhao
备注:  Accepted by AAAI2024
Abstract:Training high-accuracy 3D detectors necessitates massive labeled 3D annotations with 7 degree-of-freedom, which is laborious and time-consuming. Therefore, the form of point annotations is proposed to offer significant prospects for practical applications in 3D detection, which is not only more accessible and less expensive but also provides strong spatial information for object this http URL this paper, we empirically discover that it is non-trivial to merely adapt Point-DETR to its 3D form, encountering two main bottlenecks: 1) it fails to encode strong 3D prior into the model, and 2) it generates low-quality pseudo labels in distant regions due to the extreme sparsity of LiDAR points. To overcome these challenges, we introduce Point-DETR3D, a teacher-student framework for weakly semi-supervised 3D detection, designed to fully capitalize on point-wise supervision within a constrained instance-wise annotation budget.Different from Point-DETR which encodes 3D positional information solely through a point encoder, we propose an explicit positional query initialization strategy to enhance the positional prior. Considering the low quality of pseudo labels at distant regions produced by the teacher model, we enhance the detector's perception by incorporating dense imagery data through a novel Cross-Modal Deformable RoI Fusion (D-RoI).Moreover, an innovative point-guided self-supervised learning technique is proposed to allow for fully exploiting point priors, even in student models.Extensive experiments on representative nuScenes dataset demonstrate our Point-DETR3D obtains significant improvements compared to previous works. Notably, with only 5% of labeled data, Point-DETR3D achieves over 90% performance of its fully supervised counterpart.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [37]
标题:  CR3DT: Camera-RADAR Fusion for 3D Detection and Tracking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15313
作者:  Nicolas Baumann,  Michael Baumgartner,  Edoardo Ghignone,  Jonas Kühne,  Tobias Fischer,  Yung-Hsu Yang,  Marc Pollefeys,  Michele Magno
备注:  
Abstract:Accurate detection and tracking of surrounding objects is essential to enable self-driving vehicles. While Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensors have set the benchmark for high performance, the appeal of camera-only solutions lies in their cost-effectiveness. Notably, despite the prevalent use of Radio Detection and Ranging (RADAR) sensors in automotive systems, their potential in 3D detection and tracking has been largely disregarded due to data sparsity and measurement noise. As a recent development, the combination of RADARs and cameras is emerging as a promising solution. This paper presents Camera-RADAR 3D Detection and Tracking (CR3DT), a camera-RADAR fusion model for 3D object detection, and Multi-Object Tracking (MOT). Building upon the foundations of the State-of-the-Art (SotA) camera-only BEVDet architecture, CR3DT demonstrates substantial improvements in both detection and tracking capabilities, by incorporating the spatial and velocity information of the RADAR sensor. Experimental results demonstrate an absolute improvement in detection performance of 5.3% in mean Average Precision (mAP) and a 14.9% increase in Average Multi-Object Tracking Accuracy (AMOTA) on the nuScenes dataset when leveraging both modalities. CR3DT bridges the gap between high-performance and cost-effective perception systems in autonomous driving, by capitalizing on the ubiquitous presence of RADAR in automotive applications.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [38]
标题:  Controlled Training Data Generation with Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15309
作者:  Teresa Yeo,  Andrei Atanov,  Harold Benoit,  Aleksandr Alekseev,  Ruchira Ray,  Pooya Esmaeil Akhoondi,  Amir Zamir
备注:  Project page at this https URL
Abstract:In this work, we present a method to control a text-to-image generative model to produce training data specifically "useful" for supervised learning. Unlike previous works that employ an open-loop approach and pre-define prompts to generate new data using either a language model or human expertise, we develop an automated closed-loop system which involves two feedback mechanisms. The first mechanism uses feedback from a given supervised model and finds adversarial prompts that result in image generations that maximize the model loss. While these adversarial prompts result in diverse data informed by the model, they are not informed of the target distribution, which can be inefficient. Therefore, we introduce the second feedback mechanism that guides the generation process towards a certain target distribution. We call the method combining these two mechanisms Guided Adversarial Prompts. We perform our evaluations on different tasks, datasets and architectures, with different types of distribution shifts (spuriously correlated data, unseen domains) and demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed feedback mechanisms compared to open-loop approaches.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [39]
标题:  Strategic Network Creation for Enabling Greedy Routing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15307
作者:  Julian Berger,  Tobias Friedrich,  Pascal Lenzner,  Paraskevi Machaira,  Janosch Ruff
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present the first game-theoretic network creation model that incorporates greedy routing, i.e., the agents in our model are embedded in some metric space and strive for creating a network where all-pairs greedy routing is enabled. In contrast to graph-theoretic shortest paths, our agents route their traffic along greedy paths, which are sequences of nodes where the distance in the metric space to the respective target node gets strictly smaller by each hop. Besides enabling greedy routing, the agents also optimize their connection quality within the created network by constructing greedy paths with low stretch. This ensures that greedy routing is always possible in equilibrium networks, while realistically modeling the agents' incentives for local structural changes to the network. With this we augment the elegant network creation model by Moscibroda, Schmidt, and Wattenhofer (PODC'06) with the feature of greedy routing. For our model, we analyze the existence of (approximate)-equilibria and the computational hardness in different underlying metric spaces. E.g., we characterize the set of equilibria in 1-2-metrics and tree metrics, we show that in both metrics Nash equilibria always exist, and we prove that the well-known $\Theta$-graph construction yields constant-approximate Nash equilibria in Euclidean space. The latter justifies distributed network construction via $\Theta$-graphs from a new point-of-view, since it shows that this powerful technique not only guarantees networks having a low stretch but also networks that are almost stable.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [40]
标题:  HortiBot: An Adaptive Multi-Arm System for Robotic Horticulture of Sweet  Peppers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15306
作者:  Christian Lenz,  Rohit Menon,  Michael Schreiber,  Melvin Paul Jacob,  Sven Behnke,  Maren Bennewitz
备注:  Submitted to International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) 2024. C. Lenz and R. Menon contributed equally
Abstract:Horticultural tasks such as pruning and selective harvesting are labor intensive and horticultural staff are hard to find. Automating these tasks is challenging due to the semi-structured greenhouse workspaces, changing environmental conditions such as lighting, dense plant growth with many occlusions, and the need for gentle manipulation of non-rigid plant organs. In this work, we present the three-armed system HortiBot, with two arms for manipulation and a third arm as an articulated head for active perception using stereo cameras. Its perception system detects not only peppers, but also peduncles and stems in real time, and performs online data association to build a world model of pepper plants. Collision-aware online trajectory generation allows all three arms to safely track their respective targets for observation, grasping, and cutting. We integrated perception and manipulation to perform selective harvesting of peppers and evaluated the system in lab experiments. Using active perception coupled with end-effector force torque sensing for compliant manipulation, HortiBot achieves high success rates.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [41]
标题:  KTbench: A Novel Data Leakage-Free Framework for Knowledge Tracing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15304
作者:  Yahya Badran,  Christine Preisach
备注:  preprint
Abstract:Knowledge Tracing (KT) is concerned with predicting students' future performance on learning items in intelligent tutoring systems. Learning items are tagged with skill labels called knowledge concepts (KCs). Many KT models expand the sequence of item-student interactions into KC-student interactions by replacing learning items with their constituting KCs. This often results in a longer sequence length. This approach addresses the issue of sparse item-student interactions and minimises model parameters. However, two problems have been identified with such models. The first problem is the model's ability to learn correlations between KCs belonging to the same item, which can result in the leakage of ground truth labels and hinder performance. This problem can lead to a significant decrease in performance on datasets with a higher number of KCs per item. The second problem is that the available benchmark implementations ignore accounting for changes in sequence length when expanding KCs, leading to different models being tested with varying sequence lengths but still compared against the same benchmark. To address these problems, we introduce a general masking framework that mitigates the first problem and enhances the performance of such KT models while preserving the original model architecture without significant alterations. Additionally, we introduce KTbench, an open-source benchmark library designed to ensure the reproducibility of this work while mitigating the second problem.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [42]
标题:  Network Calculus Characterization of Congestion Control for Time-Varying  Traffic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15303
作者:  Harvinder Lehal,  Natchanon Luangsomboon,  Jörg Liebeherr
备注:  
Abstract:Models for the dynamics of congestion control generally involve systems of coupled differential equations. Universally, these models assume that traffic sources saturate the maximum transmissions allowed by the congestion control method. This is not suitable for studying congestion control of intermittent but bursty traffic sources. In this paper, we present a characterization of congestion control for arbitrary time-varying traffic that applies to rate-based as well as window-based congestion control. We leverage the capability of network calculus to precisely describe the input-output relationship at network elements for arbitrary source traffic. We show that our characterization can closely track the dynamics of even complex congestion control algorithms.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Performance (cs.PF)

**编号**: [43]
标题:  Planning with a Learned Policy Basis to Optimally Solve Complex Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15301
作者:  Guillermo Infante,  David Kuric,  Anders Jonsson,  Vicenç Gómez,  Herke van Hoof
备注:  
Abstract:Conventional reinforcement learning (RL) methods can successfully solve a wide range of sequential decision problems. However, learning policies that can generalize predictably across multiple tasks in a setting with non-Markovian reward specifications is a challenging problem. We propose to use successor features to learn a policy basis so that each (sub)policy in it solves a well-defined subproblem. In a task described by a finite state automaton (FSA) that involves the same set of subproblems, the combination of these (sub)policies can then be used to generate an optimal solution without additional learning. In contrast to other methods that combine (sub)policies via planning, our method asymptotically attains global optimality, even in stochastic environments.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [44]
标题:  Sphere Neural-Networks for Rational Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15297
作者:  Tiansi Dong,  Mateja Jamnik,  Pietro Liò
备注:  
Abstract:The success of Large Language Models (LLMs), e.g., ChatGPT, is witnessed by their planetary popularity, their capability of human-like question-answering, and also by their steadily improved reasoning performance. However, it remains unclear whether LLMs reason. It is an open problem how traditional neural networks can be qualitatively extended to go beyond the statistic paradigm and achieve high-level cognition. Here, we present a minimalist qualitative extension by generalising computational building blocks from vectors to spheres. We propose Sphere Neural Networks (SphNNs) for human-like reasoning through model construction and inspection, and develop SphNN for syllogistic reasoning, a microcosm of human rationality. Instead of training data, SphNN uses a neuro-symbolic transition map of neighbourhood spatial relations to guide transformations from the current sphere configuration towards the target. SphNN is the first neural model that can determine the validity of long-chained syllogistic reasoning in one epoch by constructing sphere configurations as Euler diagrams, with the worst computational complexity of O(N^2). SphNN can evolve into various types of reasoning, such as spatio-temporal reasoning, logical reasoning with negation and disjunction, event reasoning, neuro-symbolic reasoning, and humour understanding (the highest level of cognition). All these suggest a new kind of Herbert A. Simon's scissors with two neural blades. SphNNs will tremendously enhance interdisciplinary collaborations to develop the two neural blades and realise deterministic neural reasoning and human-bounded rationality and elevate LLMs to reliable psychological AI. This work suggests that the non-zero radii of spheres are the missing components that prevent traditional deep-learning systems from reaching the realm of rational reasoning and cause LLMs to be trapped in the swamp of hallucination.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [45]
标题:  Human behaviour through a LENS: How Linguistic content triggers Emotions  and Norms and determines Strategy choices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15293
作者:  Valerio Capraro
备注:  
Abstract:Over the last two decades, a growing body of experimental research has provided evidence that linguistic frames influence human behaviour in economic games, beyond the economic consequences of the available actions. This article proposes a novel framework that transcends the traditional confines of outcome-based preference models. According to the LENS model, the Linguistic description of the decision problem triggers Emotional responses and suggests potential Norms of behaviour, which then interact to shape an individual's Strategic choice. The article reviews experimental evidence that supports each path of the LENS model. Furthermore, it identifies and discusses several critical research questions that arise from this model, pointing towards avenues for future inquiry.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); General Economics (econ.GN); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)

**编号**: [46]
标题:  Event-Triggered State Estimation Through Confidence Level
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15289
作者:  Wei Liu
备注:  
Abstract:This paper considers the state estimation problem for discrete-time linear systems under event-triggered scheme. In order to improve performance, a novel event-triggered scheme based on confidence level is proposed using the chi-square distribution and mild regularity assumption. In terms of the novel event-triggered scheme, a minimum mean squared error (MMSE) state estimator is proposed using some results presented in this paper. Two algorithms for communication rate estimation of the proposed MMSE state estimator are developed where the first algorithm is based on information with one-step delay, and the second algorithm is based on information with two-step delay. The performance and effectiveness of the proposed MMSE state estimator and the two communication rate estimation algorithms are illustrated using a target tracking scenario.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [47]
标题:  Accelerating Aeroelastic UVLM Simulations by Inexact Newton Algorithms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15286
作者:  Jenny Schubert,  Marc C. Steinbach,  Christian Hente,  David Märtins,  Daniel Schuster
备注:  
Abstract:We consider the aeroelastic simulation of flexible mechanical structures submerged in subsonic fluid flows at low Mach numbers. The nonlinear kinematics of flexible bodies are described in the total Lagrangian formulation and discretized by finite elements. The aerodynamic loads are computed using the unsteady vortex-lattice method wherein a free wake is tracked over time. Each implicit time step in the dynamic simulation then requires solving a nonlinear equation system in the structural variables with additional aerodynamic load terms. Our focus here is on the efficient numerical solution of this system by accelerating the Newton algorithm. The particular structure of the aeroelastic nonlinear system suggests the structural derivative as an approximation to the full derivative in the linear Newton system. We investigate and compare two promising algorithms based in this approximation, a quasi-Newton type algorithm and a novel inexact Newton algorithm. Numerical experiments are performed on a flexible plate and on a wind turbine. Our computational results show that the approximation can indeed accelerate the Newton algorithm substantially. Surprisingly, the theoretically preferable inexact Newton algorithm is much slower than the quasi-Newton algorithm, which motivates further research to speed up derivative evaluations.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [48]
标题:  Blockchain-based Pseudonym Management for Vehicle Twin Migrations in  Vehicular Edge Metaverse
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15285
作者:  Jiawen Kang,  Xiaofeng Luo,  Jiangtian Nie,  Tianhao Wu,  Haibo Zhou,  Yonghua Wang,  Dusit Niyato,  Shiwen Mao,  Shengli Xie
备注:  14 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Driven by the great advances in metaverse and edge computing technologies, vehicular edge metaverses are expected to disrupt the current paradigm of intelligent transportation systems. As highly computerized avatars of Vehicular Metaverse Users (VMUs), the Vehicle Twins (VTs) deployed in edge servers can provide valuable metaverse services to improve driving safety and on-board satisfaction for their VMUs throughout journeys. To maintain uninterrupted metaverse experiences, VTs must be migrated among edge servers following the movements of vehicles. This can raise concerns about privacy breaches during the dynamic communications among vehicular edge metaverses. To address these concerns and safeguard location privacy, pseudonyms as temporary identifiers can be leveraged by both VMUs and VTs to realize anonymous communications in the physical space and virtual spaces. However, existing pseudonym management methods fall short in meeting the extensive pseudonym demands in vehicular edge metaverses, thus dramatically diminishing the performance of privacy preservation. To this end, we present a cross-metaverse empowered dual pseudonym management framework. We utilize cross-chain technology to enhance management efficiency and data security for pseudonyms. Furthermore, we propose a metric to assess the privacy level and employ a Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning (MADRL) approach to obtain an optimal pseudonym generating strategy. Numerical results demonstrate that our proposed schemes are high-efficiency and cost-effective, showcasing their promising applications in vehicular edge metaverses.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [49]
标题:  Fundus: A Simple-to-Use News Scraper Optimized for High Quality  Extractions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15279
作者:  Max Dallabetta,  Conrad Dobberstein,  Adrian Breiding,  Alan Akbik
备注:  10 pages, 4 figures, submitted to ACL 2024, for a screencast see this https URL
Abstract:This paper introduces Fundus, a user-friendly news scraper that enables users to obtain millions of high-quality news articles with just a few lines of code. Unlike existing news scrapers, we use manually crafted, bespoke content extractors that are specifically tailored to the formatting guidelines of each supported online newspaper. This allows us to optimize our scraping for quality such that retrieved news articles are textually complete and without HTML artifacts. Further, our framework combines both crawling (retrieving HTML from the web or large web archives) and content extraction into a single pipeline. By providing a unified interface for a predefined collection of newspapers, we aim to make Fundus broadly usable even for non-technical users. This paper gives an overview of the framework, discusses our design choices, and presents a comparative evaluation against other popular news scrapers. Our evaluation shows that Fundus yields significantly higher quality extractions (complete and artifact-free news articles) than prior work. The framework is available on GitHub under this https URL and can be simply installed using pip.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [50]
标题:  Specifying Genericity through Inclusiveness and Abstractness Continuous  Scales
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15278
作者:  Claudia Collacciani,  Andrea Amelio Ravelli,  Marianna Marcella Bolognesi
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces a novel annotation framework for the fine-grained modeling of Noun Phrases' (NPs) genericity in natural language. The framework is designed to be simple and intuitive, making it accessible to non-expert annotators and suitable for crowd-sourced tasks. Drawing from theoretical and cognitive literature on genericity, this framework is grounded in established linguistic theory. Through a pilot study, we created a small but crucial annotated dataset of 324 sentences, serving as a foundation for future research. To validate our approach, we conducted an evaluation comparing our continuous annotations with existing binary annotations on the same dataset, demonstrating the framework's effectiveness in capturing nuanced aspects of genericity. Our work offers a practical resource for linguists, providing a first annotated dataset and an annotation scheme designed to build real-language datasets that can be used in studies on the semantics of genericity, and NLP practitioners, contributing to the development of commonsense knowledge repositories valuable in enhancing various NLP applications.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [51]
标题:  Event Temporal Relation Extraction based on Retrieval-Augmented on LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15273
作者:  Xiaobin Zhang,  Liangjun Zang,  Qianwen Liu,  Shuchong Wei,  Songlin Hu
备注:  8 pages,6 figures.Accepted to the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN2024)
Abstract:Event temporal relation (TempRel) is a primary subject of the event relation extraction task. However, the inherent ambiguity of TempRel increases the difficulty of the task. With the rise of prompt engineering, it is important to design effective prompt templates and verbalizers to extract relevant knowledge. The traditional manually designed templates struggle to extract precise temporal knowledge. This paper introduces a novel retrieval-augmented TempRel extraction approach, leveraging knowledge retrieved from large language models (LLMs) to enhance prompt templates and verbalizers. Our method capitalizes on the diverse capabilities of various LLMs to generate a wide array of ideas for template and verbalizer design. Our proposed method fully exploits the potential of LLMs for generation tasks and contributes more knowledge to our design. Empirical evaluations across three widely recognized datasets demonstrate the efficacy of our method in improving the performance of event temporal relation extraction tasks.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [52]
标题:  WSCLoc: Weakly-Supervised Sparse-View Camera Relocalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15272
作者:  Jialu Wang,  Kaichen Zhou,  Andrew Markham,  Niki Trigoni
备注:  
Abstract:Despite the advancements in deep learning for camera relocalization tasks, obtaining ground truth pose labels required for the training process remains a costly endeavor. While current weakly supervised methods excel in lightweight label generation, their performance notably declines in scenarios with sparse views. In response to this challenge, we introduce WSCLoc, a system capable of being customized to various deep learning-based relocalization models to enhance their performance under weakly-supervised and sparse view conditions. This is realized with two stages. In the initial stage, WSCLoc employs a multilayer perceptron-based structure called WFT-NeRF to co-optimize image reconstruction quality and initial pose information. To ensure a stable learning process, we incorporate temporal information as input. Furthermore, instead of optimizing SE(3), we opt for $\mathfrak{sim}(3)$ optimization to explicitly enforce a scale constraint. In the second stage, we co-optimize the pre-trained WFT-NeRF and WFT-Pose. This optimization is enhanced by Time-Encoding based Random View Synthesis and supervised by inter-frame geometric constraints that consider pose, depth, and RGB information. We validate our approaches on two publicly available datasets, one outdoor and one indoor. Our experimental results demonstrate that our weakly-supervised relocalization solutions achieve superior pose estimation accuracy in sparse-view scenarios, comparable to state-of-the-art camera relocalization methods. We will make our code publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [53]
标题:  From Hardware Fingerprint to Access Token: Enhancing the Authentication  on IoT Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15271
作者:  Yue Xiao,  Yi He,  Xiaoli Zhang,  Qian Wang,  Renjie Xie,  Kun Sun,  Ke Xu,  Qi Li
备注:  
Abstract:The proliferation of consumer IoT products in our daily lives has raised the need for secure device authentication and access control. Unfortunately, these resource-constrained devices typically use token-based authentication, which is vulnerable to token compromise attacks that allow attackers to impersonate the devices and perform malicious operations by stealing the access token. Using hardware fingerprints to secure their authentication is a promising way to mitigate these threats. However, once attackers have stolen some hardware fingerprints (e.g., via MitM attacks), they can bypass the hardware authentication by training a machine learning model to mimic fingerprints or reusing these fingerprints to craft forge requests. In this paper, we present MCU-Token, a secure hardware fingerprinting framework for MCU-based IoT devices even if the cryptographic mechanisms (e.g., private keys) are compromised. MCU-Token can be easily integrated with various IoT devices by simply adding a short hardware fingerprint-based token to the existing payload. To prevent the reuse of this token, we propose a message mapping approach that binds the token to a specific request via generating the hardware fingerprints based on the request payload. To defeat the machine learning attacks, we mix the valid fingerprints with poisoning data so that attackers cannot train a usable model with the leaked tokens. MCU-Token can defend against armored adversary who may replay, craft, and offload the requests via MitM or use both hardware (e.g., use identical devices) and software (e.g., machine learning attacks) strategies to mimic the fingerprints. The system evaluation shows that MCU-Token can achieve high accuracy (over 97%) with a low overhead across various IoT devices and application scenarios.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [54]
标题:  Imagination Augmented Generation: Learning to Imagine Richer Context for  Question Answering over Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15268
作者:  Huanxuan Liao,  Shizhu He,  Yao Xu,  Yuanzhe Zhang,  Kang Liu,  Shengping Liu,  Jun Zhao
备注:  
Abstract:Retrieval-Augmented-Generation and Gener-ation-Augmented-Generation have been proposed to enhance the knowledge required for question answering over Large Language Models (LLMs). However, the former depends on external resources, and both require incorporating the explicit documents into the context, which results in longer contexts that lead to more resource consumption. Recent works indicate that LLMs have modeled rich knowledge, albeit not effectively triggered or activated. Inspired by this, we propose a novel knowledge-augmented framework, Imagination-Augmented-Generation (IAG), which simulates the human capacity to compensate for knowledge deficits while answering questions solely through imagination, without relying on external resources. Guided by IAG, we propose an imagine richer context method for question answering (IMcQA), which obtains richer context through the following two modules: explicit imagination by generating a short dummy document with long context compress and implicit imagination with HyperNetwork for generating adapter weights. Experimental results on three datasets demonstrate that IMcQA exhibits significant advantages in both open-domain and closed-book settings, as well as in both in-distribution performance and out-of-distribution generalizations. Our code will be available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [55]
标题:  Parametric PDE Control with Deep Reinforcement Learning and  Differentiable L0-Sparse Polynomial Policies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15267
作者:  Nicolò Botteghi,  Urban Fasel
备注:  
Abstract:Optimal control of parametric partial differential equations (PDEs) is crucial in many applications in engineering and science. In recent years, the progress in scientific machine learning has opened up new frontiers for the control of parametric PDEs. In particular, deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has the potential to solve high-dimensional and complex control problems in a large variety of applications. Most DRL methods rely on deep neural network (DNN) control policies. However, for many dynamical systems, DNN-based control policies tend to be over-parametrized, which means they need large amounts of training data, show limited robustness, and lack interpretability. In this work, we leverage dictionary learning and differentiable L$_0$ regularization to learn sparse, robust, and interpretable control policies for parametric PDEs. Our sparse policy architecture is agnostic to the DRL method and can be used in different policy-gradient and actor-critic DRL algorithms without changing their policy-optimization procedure. We test our approach on the challenging tasks of controlling parametric Kuramoto-Sivashinsky and convection-diffusion-reaction PDEs. We show that our method (1) outperforms baseline DNN-based DRL policies, (2) allows for the derivation of interpretable equations of the learned optimal control laws, and (3) generalizes to unseen parameters of the PDE without retraining the policies.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [56]
标题:  Control contraction metrics on Lie groups
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15264
作者:  Dongjun Wu,  Bowen Yi,  Ian R. Manchester
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we extend the control contraction metrics (CCM) approach, which was originally proposed for the universal tracking control of nonlinear systems, to those that evolves on Lie groups. Our idea is to view the manifold as a constrained set that is embedded in Euclidean space, and then propose the sufficient conditions for the existence of a CCM and the associated controller design. Notably, we demonstrate that the search for CCM on Lie groups can be reformulated as convex conditions. The results extend the applicability of the CCM approach and provide a framework for analyzing the behavior of control systems with Lie group structures.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [57]
标题:  Federated Bayesian Deep Learning: The Application of Statistical  Aggregation Methods to Bayesian Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15263
作者:  John Fischer,  Marko Orescanin,  Justin Loomis,  Patrick McClure
备注:  22 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Federated learning (FL) is an approach to training machine learning models that takes advantage of multiple distributed datasets while maintaining data privacy and reducing communication costs associated with sharing local datasets. Aggregation strategies have been developed to pool or fuse the weights and biases of distributed deterministic models; however, modern deterministic deep learning (DL) models are often poorly calibrated and lack the ability to communicate a measure of epistemic uncertainty in prediction, which is desirable for remote sensing platforms and safety-critical applications. Conversely, Bayesian DL models are often well calibrated and capable of quantifying and communicating a measure of epistemic uncertainty along with a competitive prediction accuracy. Unfortunately, because the weights and biases in Bayesian DL models are defined by a probability distribution, simple application of the aggregation methods associated with FL schemes for deterministic models is either impossible or results in sub-optimal performance. In this work, we use independent and identically distributed (IID) and non-IID partitions of the CIFAR-10 dataset and a fully variational ResNet-20 architecture to analyze six different aggregation strategies for Bayesian DL models. Additionally, we analyze the traditional federated averaging approach applied to an approximate Bayesian Monte Carlo dropout model as a lightweight alternative to more complex variational inference methods in FL. We show that aggregation strategy is a key hyperparameter in the design of a Bayesian FL system with downstream effects on accuracy, calibration, uncertainty quantification, training stability, and client compute requirements.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [58]
标题:  Hyperbolic Metric Learning for Visual Outlier Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15260
作者:  Alvaro Gonzalez-Jimenez,  Simone Lionetti,  Dena Bazazian,  Philippe Gottfrois,  Fabian Gröger,  Marc Pouly,  Alexander Navarini
备注:  
Abstract:Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) detection is critical to deploy deep learning models in safety-critical applications. However, the inherent hierarchical concept structure of visual data, which is instrumental to OOD detection, is often poorly captured by conventional methods based on Euclidean geometry. This work proposes a metric framework that leverages the strengths of Hyperbolic geometry for OOD detection. Inspired by previous works that refine the decision boundary for OOD data with synthetic outliers, we extend this method to Hyperbolic space. Interestingly, we find that synthetic outliers do not benefit OOD detection in Hyperbolic space as they do in Euclidean space. Furthermore we explore the relationship between OOD detection performance and Hyperbolic embedding dimension, addressing practical concerns in resource-constrained environments. Extensive experiments show that our framework improves the FPR95 for OOD detection from 22\% to 15\% and from 49% to 28% on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 respectively compared to Euclidean methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [59]
标题:  Hierarchical Information Enhancement Network for Cascade Prediction in  Social Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15257
作者:  Fanrui Zhang,  Jiawei Liu,  Qiang Zhang,  Xiaoling Zhu,  Zheng-Jun Zha
备注:  7 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:Understanding information cascades in networks is a fundamental issue in numerous applications. Current researches often sample cascade information into several independent paths or subgraphs to learn a simple cascade representation. However, these approaches fail to exploit the hierarchical semantic associations between different modalities, limiting their predictive performance. In this work, we propose a novel Hierarchical Information Enhancement Network (HIENet) for cascade prediction. Our approach integrates fundamental cascade sequence, user social graphs, and sub-cascade graph into a unified framework. Specifically, HIENet utilizes DeepWalk to sample cascades information into a series of sequences. It then gathers path information between users to extract the social relationships of propagators. Additionally, we employ a time-stamped graph convolutional network to aggregate sub-cascade graph information effectively. Ultimately, we introduce a Multi-modal Cascade Transformer to powerfully fuse these clues, providing a comprehensive understanding of cascading process. Extensive experiments have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [60]
标题:  Experimental Studies of Metaverse Streaming
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15256
作者:  Haopeng Wang,  Roberto Martinez-Velazquez,  Haiwei Dong,  Abdulmotaleb El Saddik
备注:  Accepted by IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine
Abstract:Metaverse aims to construct a large, unified, immersive, and shared digital realm by combining various technologies, namely XR (extended reality), blockchain, and digital twin, among others. This article explores the Metaverse from the perspective of multimedia communication by conducting and analyzing real-world experiments on four different Metaverse platforms: VR (virtual reality) Vircadia, VR Mozilla Hubs, VRChat, and MR (mixed reality) Virtual City. We first investigate the traffic patterns and network performance in the three VR platforms. After raising the challenges of the Metaverse streaming and investigating the potential methods to enhance Metaverse performance, we propose a remote rendering architecture and verify its advantages through a prototype involving the campus network and MR multimodal interaction by comparison with local rendering.
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [61]
标题:  Safe Learning of PDDL Domains with Conditional Effects -- Extended  Version
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15251
作者:  Argaman Mordoch,  Enrico Scala,  Roni Stern,  Brendan Juba
备注:  
Abstract:Powerful domain-independent planners have been developed to solve various types of planning problems. These planners often require a model of the acting agent's actions, given in some planning domain description language. Manually designing such an action model is a notoriously challenging task. An alternative is to automatically learn action models from observation. Such an action model is called safe if every plan created with it is consistent with the real, unknown action model. Algorithms for learning such safe action models exist, yet they cannot handle domains with conditional or universal effects, which are common constructs in many planning problems. We prove that learning non-trivial safe action models with conditional effects may require an exponential number of samples. Then, we identify reasonable assumptions under which such learning is tractable and propose SAM Learning of Conditional Effects (Conditional-SAM), the first algorithm capable of doing so. We analyze Conditional-SAM theoretically and evaluate it experimentally. Our results show that the action models learned by Conditional-SAM can be used to solve perfectly most of the test set problems in most of the experimented domains.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [62]
标题:  Comprehensive Reassessment of Large-Scale Evaluation Outcomes in LLMs: A  Multifaceted Statistical Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15250
作者:  Kun Sun,  Rong Wang,  Haitao Liu,  Anders Søgaard
备注:  
Abstract:Amidst the rapid evolution of LLMs, the significance of evaluation in comprehending and propelling these models forward is increasingly paramount. Evaluations have revealed that factors such as scaling, training types, architectures and other factors profoundly impact the performance of LLMs. However, the extent and nature of these impacts continue to be subjects of debate because most assessments have been restricted to a limited number of models and data points. Clarifying the effects of these factors on performance scores can be more effectively achieved through a statistical lens. Our study embarks on a thorough re-examination of these LLMs, targeting the inadequacies in current evaluation methods. With the advent of a uniform evaluation framework, our research leverages an expansive dataset of evaluation results, introducing a comprehensive statistical methodology. This includes the application of ANOVA, Tukey HSD tests, GAMM, and clustering technique, offering a robust and transparent approach to deciphering LLM performance data. Contrary to prevailing findings, our results challenge assumptions about emergent abilities and the influence of given training types and architectures in LLMs. These findings furnish new perspectives on the characteristics, intrinsic nature, and developmental trajectories of LLMs. By providing straightforward and reliable methods to scrutinize and reassess LLM performance data, this study contributes a nuanced perspective on LLM efficiency and potentials.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [63]
标题:  Spectral Motion Alignment for Video Motion Transfer using Diffusion  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15249
作者:  Geon Yeong Park,  Hyeonho Jeong,  Sang Wan Lee,  Jong Chul Ye
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:The evolution of diffusion models has greatly impacted video generation and understanding. Particularly, text-to-video diffusion models (VDMs) have significantly facilitated the customization of input video with target appearance, motion, etc. Despite these advances, challenges persist in accurately distilling motion information from video frames. While existing works leverage the consecutive frame residual as the target motion vector, they inherently lack global motion context and are vulnerable to frame-wise distortions. To address this, we present Spectral Motion Alignment (SMA), a novel framework that refines and aligns motion vectors using Fourier and wavelet transforms. SMA learns motion patterns by incorporating frequency-domain regularization, facilitating the learning of whole-frame global motion dynamics, and mitigating spatial artifacts. Extensive experiments demonstrate SMA's efficacy in improving motion transfer while maintaining computational efficiency and compatibility across various video customization frameworks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [64]
标题:  Self-Supervised Backbone Framework for Diverse Agricultural Vision Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15248
作者:  Sudhir Sornapudi (1),  Rajhans Singh (1) ((1) Corteva Agriscience, Indianapolis, USA)
备注:  
Abstract:Computer vision in agriculture is game-changing with its ability to transform farming into a data-driven, precise, and sustainable industry. Deep learning has empowered agriculture vision to analyze vast, complex visual data, but heavily rely on the availability of large annotated datasets. This remains a bottleneck as manual labeling is error-prone, time-consuming, and expensive. The lack of efficient labeling approaches inspired us to consider self-supervised learning as a paradigm shift, learning meaningful feature representations from raw agricultural image data. In this work, we explore how self-supervised representation learning unlocks the potential applicability to diverse agriculture vision tasks by eliminating the need for large-scale annotated datasets. We propose a lightweight framework utilizing SimCLR, a contrastive learning approach, to pre-train a ResNet-50 backbone on a large, unannotated dataset of real-world agriculture field images. Our experimental analysis and results indicate that the model learns robust features applicable to a broad range of downstream agriculture tasks discussed in the paper. Additionally, the reduced reliance on annotated data makes our approach more cost-effective and accessible, paving the way for broader adoption of computer vision in agriculture.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [65]
标题:  FollowIR: Evaluating and Teaching Information Retrieval Models to Follow  Instructions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15246
作者:  Orion Weller,  Benjamin Chang,  Sean MacAvaney,  Kyle Lo,  Arman Cohan,  Benjamin Van Durme,  Dawn Lawrie,  Luca Soldaini
备注:  
Abstract:Modern Large Language Models (LLMs) are capable of following long and complex instructions that enable a diverse amount of user tasks. However, despite Information Retrieval (IR) models using LLMs as the backbone of their architectures, nearly all of them still only take queries as input, with no instructions. For the handful of recent models that do take instructions, it's unclear how they use them. We introduce our dataset FollowIR, which contains a rigorous instruction evaluation benchmark as well as a training set for helping IR models learn to better follow real-world instructions. FollowIR builds off the long history of the TREC conferences: as TREC provides human annotators with instructions (also known as narratives) to determine document relevance, so should IR models be able to understand and decide relevance based on these detailed instructions. Our evaluation benchmark starts with three deeply judged TREC collections and alters the annotator instructions, re-annotating relevant documents. Through this process, we can measure how well IR models follow instructions, through a new pairwise evaluation framework. Our results indicate that existing retrieval models fail to correctly use instructions, using them for basic keywords and struggling to understand long-form information. However, we show that it is possible for IR models to learn to follow complex instructions: our new FollowIR-7B model has significant improvements (over 13%) after fine-tuning on our training set.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [66]
标题:  Reasoning-Enhanced Object-Centric Learning for Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15245
作者:  Jian Li,  Pu Ren,  Yang Liu,  Hao Sun
备注:  
Abstract:Object-centric learning aims to break down complex visual scenes into more manageable object representations, enhancing the understanding and reasoning abilities of machine learning systems toward the physical world. Recently, slot-based video models have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in segmenting and tracking objects, but they overlook the importance of the effective reasoning module. In the real world, reasoning and predictive abilities play a crucial role in human perception and object tracking; in particular, these abilities are closely related to human intuitive physics. Inspired by this, we designed a novel reasoning module called the Slot-based Time-Space Transformer with Memory buffer (STATM) to enhance the model's perception ability in complex scenes. The memory buffer primarily serves as storage for slot information from upstream modules, the Slot-based Time-Space Transformer makes predictions through slot-based spatiotemporal attention computations and fusion. Our experiment results on various datasets show that STATM can significantly enhance object-centric learning capabilities of slot-based video models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [67]
标题:  A Stochastic Quasi-Newton Method for Non-convex Optimization with  Non-uniform Smoothness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15244
作者:  Zhenyu Sun,  Ermin Wei
备注:  
Abstract:Classical convergence analyses for optimization algorithms rely on the widely-adopted uniform smoothness assumption. However, recent experimental studies have demonstrated that many machine learning problems exhibit non-uniform smoothness, meaning the smoothness factor is a function of the model parameter instead of a universal constant. In particular, it has been observed that the smoothness grows with respect to the gradient norm along the training trajectory. Motivated by this phenomenon, the recently introduced $(L_0, L_1)$-smoothness is a more general notion, compared to traditional $L$-smoothness, that captures such positive relationship between smoothness and gradient norm. Under this type of non-uniform smoothness, existing literature has designed stochastic first-order algorithms by utilizing gradient clipping techniques to obtain the optimal $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^{-3})$ sample complexity for finding an $\epsilon$-approximate first-order stationary solution. Nevertheless, the studies of quasi-Newton methods are still lacking. Considering higher accuracy and more robustness for quasi-Newton methods, in this paper we propose a fast stochastic quasi-Newton method when there exists non-uniformity in smoothness. Leveraging gradient clipping and variance reduction, our algorithm can achieve the best-known $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^{-3})$ sample complexity and enjoys convergence speedup with simple hyperparameter tuning. Our numerical experiments show that our proposed algorithm outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [68]
标题:  IS-Fusion: Instance-Scene Collaborative Fusion for Multimodal 3D Object  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15241
作者:  Junbo Yin,  Jianbing Shen,  Runnan Chen,  Wei Li,  Ruigang Yang,  Pascal Frossard,  Wenguan Wang
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024; Code: this https URL
Abstract:Bird's eye view (BEV) representation has emerged as a dominant solution for describing 3D space in autonomous driving scenarios. However, objects in the BEV representation typically exhibit small sizes, and the associated point cloud context is inherently sparse, which leads to great challenges for reliable 3D perception. In this paper, we propose IS-Fusion, an innovative multimodal fusion framework that jointly captures the Instance- and Scene-level contextual information. IS-Fusion essentially differs from existing approaches that only focus on the BEV scene-level fusion by explicitly incorporating instance-level multimodal information, thus facilitating the instance-centric tasks like 3D object detection. It comprises a Hierarchical Scene Fusion (HSF) module and an Instance-Guided Fusion (IGF) module. HSF applies Point-to-Grid and Grid-to-Region transformers to capture the multimodal scene context at different granularities. IGF mines instance candidates, explores their relationships, and aggregates the local multimodal context for each instance. These instances then serve as guidance to enhance the scene feature and yield an instance-aware BEV representation. On the challenging nuScenes benchmark, IS-Fusion outperforms all the published multimodal works to date. Code is available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [69]
标题:  Information Rates of Successive Interference Cancellation for Optical  Fiber
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15240
作者:  Alex Jäger,  Gerhard Kramer
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible
Abstract:Successive interference cancellation (SIC) is used to approach the achievable information rates (AIRs) of joint detection and decoding for long-haul optical fiber links. The AIRs of memoryless ring constellations are compared to those of circularly symmetric complex Gaussian modulation for surrogate channel models with correlated phase noise. Simulations are performed for 1000 km of standard single-mode fiber with ideal Raman amplification. In this setup, 32 rings and 16 SIC-stages with Gaussian message-passing receivers achieve the AIR peaks of previous work. The computational complexity scales in proportion to the number of SIC-stages, where one stage has the complexity of separate detection and decoding.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [70]
标题:  Guided Decoding for Robot Motion Generation and Adaption
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15239
作者:  Nutan Chen,  Elie Aljalbout,  Botond Cseke,  Patrick van der Smagt
备注:  7 pages
Abstract:We address motion generation for high-DoF robot arms in complex settings with obstacles, via points, etc. A significant advancement in this domain is achieved by integrating Learning from Demonstration (LfD) into the motion generation process. This integration facilitates rapid adaptation to new tasks and optimizes the utilization of accumulated expertise by allowing robots to learn and generalize from demonstrated trajectories. We train a transformer architecture on a large dataset of simulated trajectories. This architecture, based on a conditional variational autoencoder transformer, learns essential motion generation skills and adapts these to meet auxiliary tasks and constraints. Our auto-regressive approach enables real-time integration of feedback from the physical system, enhancing the adaptability and efficiency of motion generation. We show that our model can generate motion from initial and target points, but also that it can adapt trajectories in navigating complex tasks, including obstacle avoidance, via points, and meeting velocity and acceleration constraints, across platforms.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [71]
标题:  ACCESS: Assurance Case Centric Engineering of Safety-critical Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15236
作者:  Ran Wei,  Simon Foster,  Haitao Mei,  Fang Yan,  Ruizhe Yang,  Ibrahim Habli,  Colin O'Halloran,  Nick Tudor,  Tim Kelly
备注:  
Abstract:Assurance cases are used to communicate and assess confidence in critical system properties such as safety and security. Historically, assurance cases have been manually created documents, which are evaluated by system stakeholders through lengthy and complicated processes. In recent years, model-based system assurance approaches have gained popularity to improve the efficiency and quality of system assurance activities. This becomes increasingly important, as systems becomes more complex, it is a challenge to manage their development life-cycles, including coordination of development, verification and validation activities, and change impact analysis in inter-connected system assurance artifacts. Moreover, there is a need for assurance cases that support evolution during the operational life of the system, to enable continuous assurance in the face of an uncertain environment, as Robotics and Autonomous Systems (RAS) are adopted into society. In this paper, we contribute ACCESS - Assurance Case Centric Engineering of Safety-critical Systems, an engineering methodology, together with its tool support, for the development of safety critical systems around evolving model-based assurance cases. We show how model-based system assurance cases can trace to heterogeneous engineering artifacts (e.g. system architectural models, system safety analysis, system behaviour models, etc.), and how formal methods can be integrated during the development process. We demonstrate how assurance cases can be automatically evaluated both at development and runtime. We apply our approach to a case study based on an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV).
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [72]
标题:  Multi-perspective Memory Enhanced Network for Identifying Key Nodes in  Social Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15235
作者:  Qiang Zhang,  Jiawei Liu,  Fanrui Zhang,  Xiaoling Zhu,  Zheng-Jun Zha
备注:  7 pages, 1 figures
Abstract:Identifying key nodes in social networks plays a crucial role in timely blocking false information. Existing key node identification methods usually consider node influence only from the propagation structure perspective and have insufficient generalization ability to unknown scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel Multi-perspective Memory Enhanced Network (MMEN) for identifying key nodes in social networks, which mines key nodes from multiple perspectives and utilizes memory networks to store historical information. Specifically, MMEN first constructs two propagation networks from the perspectives of user attributes and propagation structure and updates node feature representations using graph attention networks. Meanwhile, the memory network is employed to store information of similar subgraphs, enhancing the model's generalization performance in unknown scenarios. Finally, MMEN applies adaptive weights to combine the node influence of the two propagation networks to select the ultimate key nodes. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms previous methods.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [73]
标题:  Shadow Generation for Composite Image Using Diffusion model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15234
作者:  Qingyang Liu,  Junqi You,  Jianting Wang,  Xinhao Tao,  Bo Zhang,  Li Niu
备注:  accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:In the realm of image composition, generating realistic shadow for the inserted foreground remains a formidable challenge. Previous works have developed image-to-image translation models which are trained on paired training data. However, they are struggling to generate shadows with accurate shapes and intensities, hindered by data scarcity and inherent task complexity. In this paper, we resort to foundation model with rich prior knowledge of natural shadow images. Specifically, we first adapt ControlNet to our task and then propose intensity modulation modules to improve the shadow intensity. Moreover, we extend the small-scale DESOBA dataset to DESOBAv2 using a novel data acquisition pipeline. Experimental results on both DESOBA and DESOBAv2 datasets as well as real composite images demonstrate the superior capability of our model for shadow generation task. The dataset, code, and model are released at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [74]
标题:  Attacking with Something That Does Not Exist: Low-Rate Flood with 'Proof  of Non-Existence' Can Exhaust DNS Resolver CPU
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15233
作者:  Olivia Gruza (1),  Elias Heftrig (1),  Oliver Jacobsen (1),  Haya Schulmann (1),  Niklas Vogel (1),  Michael Waidner (2, 3, 4) ((1) Goethe-Universität Frankfurt, (2) National Research Center for Applied Cybersecurity ATHENE, (3) Fraunhofer Institute for Secure Information Technology SIT, (4) Technische Universität Darmstadt)
备注:  13 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:NSEC3 is a proof of non-existence in DNSSEC, which provides an authenticated assertion that a queried resource does not exist in the target domain. NSEC3 consists of alphabetically sorted hashed names before and after the queried hostname. To make dictionary attacks harder, the hash function can be applied in multiple iterations, which however also increases the load on the DNS resolver during the computation of the SHA-1 hashes in NSEC3 records. Concerns about the load created by the computation of NSEC3 records on the DNS resolvers were already considered in the NSEC3 specifications RFC5155 and RFC9276. In February 2024, the potential of NSEC3 to exhaust DNS resolvers' resources was assigned a CVE-2023-50868, confirming that extra iterations of NSEC3 created substantial load. However, there is no published evaluation of the attack and the impact of the attack on the resolvers was not clarified. In this work we perform the first evaluation of the NSEC3-encloser attack against DNS resolver implementations and find that the NSEC3-encloser attack can still create a 72x increase in CPU instruction count, despite the victim resolver following RFC5155 recommendations in limiting hash iteration counts. The impact of the attack varies across the different DNS resolvers, but we show that with a sufficient volume of DNS packets the attack can increase CPU load and cause packet loss. We find that at a rate of 150 malicious NSEC3 records per second, depending on the DNS implementation, the loss rate of benign DNS requests varies between 2.7% and 30%. We provide a detailed description and implementation the NSEC3-encloser attack along with evaluation against five popular DNS resolver implementations. We also develop the first analysis how each NSEC3 parameter impacts the load inflicted on the victim resolver during NSEC3-encloser attack.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [75]
标题:  An Exploratory Investigation into Code License Infringements in Large  Language Model Training Datasets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15230
作者:  Jonathan Katzy,  Răzvan-Mihai Popescu,  Arie van Deursen,  Maliheh Izadi
备注:  Accepted to FORGE 2024
Abstract:Does the training of large language models potentially infringe upon code licenses? Furthermore, are there any datasets available that can be safely used for training these models without violating such licenses? In our study, we assess the current trends in the field and the importance of incorporating code into the training of large language models. Additionally, we examine publicly available datasets to see whether these models can be trained on them without the risk of legal issues in the future. To accomplish this, we compiled a list of 53 large language models trained on file-level code. We then extracted their datasets and analyzed how much they overlap with a dataset we created, consisting exclusively of strong copyleft code. Our analysis revealed that every dataset we examined contained license inconsistencies, despite being selected based on their associated repository licenses. We analyzed a total of 514 million code files, discovering 38 million exact duplicates present in our strong copyleft dataset. Additionally, we examined 171 million file-leading comments, identifying 16 million with strong copyleft licenses and another 11 million comments that discouraged copying without explicitly mentioning a license. Based on the findings of our study, which highlights the pervasive issue of license inconsistencies in large language models trained on code, our recommendation for both researchers and the community is to prioritize the development and adoption of best practices for dataset creation and management.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [76]
标题:  LeGO: Leveraging a Surface Deformation Network for Animatable Stylized  Face Generation with One Example
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15227
作者:  Soyeon Yoon,  Kwan Yun,  Kwanggyoon Seo,  Sihun Cha,  Jung Eun Yoo,  Junyong Noh
备注:  8 pages
Abstract:Recent advances in 3D face stylization have made significant strides in few to zero-shot settings. However, the degree of stylization achieved by existing methods is often not sufficient for practical applications because they are mostly based on statistical 3D Morphable Models (3DMM) with limited variations. To this end, we propose a method that can produce a highly stylized 3D face model with desired topology. Our methods train a surface deformation network with 3DMM and translate its domain to the target style using a paired exemplar. The network achieves stylization of the 3D face mesh by mimicking the style of the target using a differentiable renderer and directional CLIP losses. Additionally, during the inference process, we utilize a Mesh Agnostic Encoder (MAGE) that takes deformation target, a mesh of diverse topologies as input to the stylization process and encodes its shape into our latent space. The resulting stylized face model can be animated by commonly used 3DMM blend shapes. A set of quantitative and qualitative evaluations demonstrate that our method can produce highly stylized face meshes according to a given style and output them in a desired topology. We also demonstrate example applications of our method including image-based stylized avatar generation, linear interpolation of geometric styles, and facial animation of stylized avatars.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [77]
标题:  Not All Attention is Needed: Parameter and Computation Efficient  Transfer Learning for Multi-modal Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15226
作者:  Qiong Wu,  Weihao Ye,  Yiyi Zhou,  Xiaoshuai Sun,  Rongrong Ji
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a novel parameter and computation efficient tuning method for Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs), termed Efficient Attention Skipping (EAS). Concretely, we first reveal that multi-head attentions (MHAs), the main computational overhead of MLLMs, are often redundant to downstream tasks. Based on this observation, EAS evaluates the attention redundancy and skips the less important MHAs to speed up inference. Besides, we also propose a novel propagation-of-information adapter (PIA) to serve the attention skipping of EAS and keep parameter efficiency, which can be further re-parameterized into feed-forward networks (FFNs) for zero-extra latency. To validate EAS, we apply it to a recently proposed MLLM called LaVIN and a classic VL pre-trained model called METER, and conduct extensive experiments on a set of benchmarks. The experiments show that EAS not only retains high performance and parameter efficiency, but also greatly speeds up inference speed. For instance, LaVIN-EAS can obtain 89.98\% accuracy on ScineceQA while speeding up inference by 2.2 times to LaVIN
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [78]
标题:  Differentially Private Ad Conversion Measurement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15224
作者:  John Delaney,  Badih Ghazi,  Charlie Harrison,  Christina Ilvento,  Ravi Kumar,  Pasin Manurangsi,  Martin Pal,  Karthik Prabhakar,  Mariana Raykova
备注:  To appear in PoPETS 2024
Abstract:In this work, we study ad conversion measurement, a central functionality in digital advertising, where an advertiser seeks to estimate advertiser website (or mobile app) conversions attributed to ad impressions that users have interacted with on various publisher websites (or mobile apps). Using differential privacy (DP), a notion that has gained in popularity due to its strong mathematical guarantees, we develop a formal framework for private ad conversion measurement. In particular, we define the notion of an operationally valid configuration of the attribution rule, DP adjacency relation, contribution bounding scope and enforcement point. We then provide, for the set of configurations that most commonly arises in practice, a complete characterization, which uncovers a delicate interplay between attribution and privacy.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [79]
标题:  TriHelper: Zero-Shot Object Navigation with Dynamic Assistance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15223
作者:  Lingfeng Zhang,  Qiang Zhang,  Hao Wang,  Erjia Xiao,  Zixuan Jiang,  Honglei Chen,  Renjing Xu
备注:  8 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:Navigating toward specific objects in unknown environments without additional training, known as Zero-Shot object navigation, poses a significant challenge in the field of robotics, which demands high levels of auxiliary information and strategic planning. Traditional works have focused on holistic solutions, overlooking the specific challenges agents encounter during navigation such as collision, low exploration efficiency, and misidentification of targets. To address these challenges, our work proposes TriHelper, a novel framework designed to assist agents dynamically through three primary navigation challenges: collision, exploration, and detection. Specifically, our framework consists of three innovative components: (i) Collision Helper, (ii) Exploration Helper, and (iii) Detection Helper. These components work collaboratively to solve these challenges throughout the navigation process. Experiments on the Habitat-Matterport 3D (HM3D) and Gibson datasets demonstrate that TriHelper significantly outperforms all existing baseline methods in Zero-Shot object navigation, showcasing superior success rates and exploration efficiency. Our ablation studies further underscore the effectiveness of each helper in addressing their respective challenges, notably enhancing the agent's navigation capabilities. By proposing TriHelper, we offer a fresh perspective on advancing the object navigation task, paving the way for future research in the domain of Embodied AI and visual-based navigation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [80]
标题:  Mutual Information of a class of Poisson-type Channels using Markov  Renewal Theory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15221
作者:  Maximilian Gehri,  Nicolai Engelmann,  Heinz Koeppl
备注:  5 main pages, 1 main figure, 4 appendix pages, 2 appendix figures, conference submission
Abstract:The mutual information (MI) of Poisson-type channels has been linked to a filtering problem since the 70s, but its evaluation for specific continuous-time, discrete-state systems remains a demanding task. As an advantage, Markov renewal processes (MrP) retain their renewal property under state space filtering. This offers a way to solve the filtering problem analytically for small systems. We consider a class of communication systems $X \to Y$ that can be derived from a MrP by a custom filtering procedure. For the subclasses, where (i) $Y$ is a renewal process or (ii) $(X,Y)$ belongs to a class of MrPs, we provide an evolution equation for finite transmission duration $T>0$ and limit theorems for $T \to \infty$ that facilitate simulation-free evaluation of the MI $\mathbb{I}(X_{[0,T]}; Y_{[0,T]})$ and its associated mutual information rate (MIR). In other cases, simulation cost is significantly reduced. We show that systems with an additional $X$-modulating level $C$, which statically chooses between different processes $X_{[0,T]}(c)$, can naturally be included in our framework thereby giving an expression for $\mathbb{I}(C; Y_{[0,T]})$. The theoretical framework is showcased in an application to bacterial gene expression, where filtering is analytically tractable.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [81]
标题:  Anytime, Anywhere, Anyone: Investigating the Feasibility of Segment  Anything Model for Crowd-Sourcing Medical Image Annotations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15218
作者:  Pranav Kulkarni,  Adway Kanhere,  Dharmam Savani,  Andrew Chan,  Devina Chatterjee,  Paul H. Yi,  Vishwa S. Parekh
备注:  
Abstract:Curating annotations for medical image segmentation is a labor-intensive and time-consuming task that requires domain expertise, resulting in "narrowly" focused deep learning (DL) models with limited translational utility. Recently, foundation models like the Segment Anything Model (SAM) have revolutionized semantic segmentation with exceptional zero-shot generalizability across various domains, including medical imaging, and hold a lot of promise for streamlining the annotation process. However, SAM has yet to be evaluated in a crowd-sourced setting to curate annotations for training 3D DL segmentation models. In this work, we explore the potential of SAM for crowd-sourcing "sparse" annotations from non-experts to generate "dense" segmentation masks for training 3D nnU-Net models, a state-of-the-art DL segmentation model. Our results indicate that while SAM-generated annotations exhibit high mean Dice scores compared to ground-truth annotations, nnU-Net models trained on SAM-generated annotations perform significantly worse than nnU-Net models trained on ground-truth annotations ($p<0.001$, all).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [82]
标题:  (Un)making AI Magic: a Design Taxonomy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15216
作者:  Maria Luce Lupetti,  Dave Murray-Rust
备注:  
Abstract:This paper examines the role that enchantment plays in the design of AI things by constructing a taxonomy of design approaches that increase or decrease the perception of magic and enchantment. We start from the design discourse surrounding recent developments in AI technologies, highlighting specific interaction qualities such as algorithmic uncertainties and errors and articulating relations to the rhetoric of magic and supernatural thinking. Through analyzing and reflecting upon 52 students' design projects from two editions of a Master course in design and AI, we identify seven design principles and unpack the effects of each in terms of enchantment and disenchantment. We conclude by articulating ways in which this taxonomy can be approached and appropriated by design/HCI practitioners, especially to support exploration and reflexivity.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [83]
标题:  Exploring the Crochemore and Ziv-Lempel factorizations of some automatic  sequences with the software Walnut
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15215
作者:  Marieh Jahannia,  Manon Stipulanti
备注:  15 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:We explore the Ziv-Lempel and Crochemore factorizations of some classical automatic sequences making an extensive use of the theorem prover Walnut.
Subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [84]
标题:  InstaSynth: Opportunities and Challenges in Generating Synthetic  Instagram Data with ChatGPT for Sponsored Content Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15214
作者:  Thales Bertaglia,  Lily Heisig,  Rishabh Kaushal,  Adriana Iamnitchi
备注:  To appear at the 18th International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media (ICWSM 2024) -- please cite accordingly
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) raise concerns about lowering the cost of generating texts that could be used for unethical or illegal purposes, especially on social media. This paper investigates the promise of such models to help enforce legal requirements related to the disclosure of sponsored content online. We investigate the use of LLMs for generating synthetic Instagram captions with two objectives: The first objective (fidelity) is to produce realistic synthetic datasets. For this, we implement content-level and network-level metrics to assess whether synthetic captions are realistic. The second objective (utility) is to create synthetic data that is useful for sponsored content detection. For this, we evaluate the effectiveness of the generated synthetic data for training classifiers to identify undisclosed advertisements on Instagram. Our investigations show that the objectives of fidelity and utility may conflict and that prompt engineering is a useful but insufficient strategy. Additionally, we find that while individual synthetic posts may appear realistic, collectively they lack diversity, topic connectivity, and realistic user interaction patterns.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [85]
标题:  GCN-DevLSTM: Path Development for Skeleton-Based Action Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15212
作者:  Lei Jiang,  Weixin Yang,  Xin Zhang,  Hao Ni
备注:  
Abstract:Skeleton-based action recognition (SAR) in videos is an important but challenging task in computer vision. The recent state-of-the-art models for SAR are primarily based on graph convolutional neural networks (GCNs), which are powerful in extracting the spatial information of skeleton data. However, it is yet clear that such GCN-based models can effectively capture the temporal dynamics of human action sequences. To this end, we propose the DevLSTM module, which exploits the path development -- a principled and parsimonious representation for sequential data by leveraging the Lie group structure. The path development, originated from Rough path theory, can effectively capture the order of events in high-dimensional stream data with massive dimension reduction and consequently enhance the LSTM module substantially. Our proposed G-DevLSTM module can be conveniently plugged into the temporal graph, complementing existing advanced GCN-based models. Our empirical studies on the NTU60, NTU120 and Chalearn2013 datasets demonstrate that our proposed hybrid model significantly outperforms the current best-performing methods in SAR tasks. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [86]
标题:  Early Period of Training Impacts Out-of-Distribution Generalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15210
作者:  Chen Cecilia Liu,  Iryna Gurevych
备注:  WIP
Abstract:Prior research has found that differences in the early period of neural network training significantly impact the performance of in-distribution (ID) tasks. However, neural networks are often sensitive to out-of-distribution (OOD) data, making them less reliable in downstream applications. Yet, the impact of the early training period on OOD generalization remains understudied due to its complexity and lack of effective analytical methodologies. In this work, we investigate the relationship between learning dynamics and OOD generalization during the early period of neural network training. We utilize the trace of Fisher Information and sharpness, with a focus on gradual unfreezing (i.e. progressively unfreezing parameters during training) as the methodology for investigation. Through a series of empirical experiments, we show that 1) selecting the number of trainable parameters at different times during training, i.e. realized by gradual unfreezing -- has a minuscule impact on ID results, but greatly affects the generalization to OOD data; 2) the absolute values of sharpness and trace of Fisher Information at the initial period of training are not indicative for OOD generalization, but the relative values could be; 3) the trace of Fisher Information and sharpness may be used as indicators for the removal of interventions during early period of training for better OOD generalization.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [87]
标题:  MSCoTDet: Language-driven Multi-modal Fusion for Improved Multispectral  Pedestrian Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15209
作者:  Taeheon Kim,  Sangyun Chung,  Damin Yeom,  Youngjoon Yu,  Hak Gu Kim,  Yong Man Ro
备注:  
Abstract:Multispectral pedestrian detection is attractive for around-the-clock applications due to the complementary information between RGB and thermal modalities. However, current models often fail to detect pedestrians in obvious cases, especially due to the modality bias learned from statistically biased datasets. From these problems, we anticipate that maybe understanding the complementary information itself is difficult to achieve from vision-only models. Accordingly, we propose a novel Multispectral Chain-of-Thought Detection (MSCoTDet) framework, which incorporates Large Language Models (LLMs) to understand the complementary information at the semantic level and further enhance the fusion process. Specifically, we generate text descriptions of the pedestrian in each RGB and thermal modality and design a Multispectral Chain-of-Thought (MSCoT) prompting, which models a step-by-step process to facilitate cross-modal reasoning at the semantic level and perform accurate detection. Moreover, we design a Language-driven Multi-modal Fusion (LMF) strategy that enables fusing vision-driven and language-driven detections. Extensive experiments validate that MSCoTDet improves multispectral pedestrian detection.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [88]
标题:  VPAS: Publicly Verifiable and Privacy-Preserving Aggregate Statistics on  Distributed Datasets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15208
作者:  Mohammed Alghazwi,  Dewi Davies-Batista,  Dimka Karastoyanova,  Fatih Turkmen
备注:  
Abstract:Aggregate statistics play an important role in extracting meaningful insights from distributed data while preserving privacy. A growing number of application domains, such as healthcare, utilize these statistics in advancing research and improving patient care. In this work, we explore the challenge of input validation and public verifiability within privacy-preserving aggregation protocols. We address the scenario in which a party receives data from multiple sources and must verify the validity of the input and correctness of the computations over this data to third parties, such as auditors, while ensuring input data privacy. To achieve this, we propose the "VPAS" protocol, which satisfies these requirements. Our protocol utilizes homomorphic encryption for data privacy, and employs Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKP) and a blockchain system for input validation and public verifiability. We constructed VPAS by extending existing verifiable encryption schemes into secure protocols that enable N clients to encrypt, aggregate, and subsequently release the final result to a collector in a verifiable manner. We implemented and experimentally evaluated VPAS with regard to encryption costs, proof generation, and verification. The findings indicate that the overhead associated with verifiability in our protocol is 10x lower than that incurred by simply using conventional zkSNARKs. This enhanced efficiency makes it feasible to apply input validation with public verifiability across a wider range of applications or use cases that can tolerate moderate computational overhead associated with proof generation.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [89]
标题:  Robust optimization for adversarial learning with finite sample  complexity guarantees
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15207
作者:  André Bertolace,  Konstatinos Gatsis,  Kostas Margellos
备注:  
Abstract:Decision making and learning in the presence of uncertainty has attracted significant attention in view of the increasing need to achieve robust and reliable operations. In the case where uncertainty stems from the presence of adversarial attacks this need is becoming more prominent. In this paper we focus on linear and nonlinear classification problems and propose a novel adversarial training method for robust classifiers, inspired by Support Vector Machine (SVM) margins. We view robustness under a data driven lens, and derive finite sample complexity bounds for both linear and non-linear classifiers in binary and multi-class scenarios. Notably, our bounds match natural classifiers' complexity. Our algorithm minimizes a worst-case surrogate loss using Linear Programming (LP) and Second Order Cone Programming (SOCP) for linear and non-linear models. Numerical experiments on the benchmark MNIST and CIFAR10 datasets show our approach's comparable performance to state-of-the-art methods, without needing adversarial examples during training. Our work offers a comprehensive framework for enhancing binary linear and non-linear classifier robustness, embedding robustness in learning under the presence of adversaries.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [90]
标题:  DITTO: Demonstration Imitation by Trajectory Transformation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15203
作者:  Nick Heppert,  Max Argus,  Tim Welschehold,  Thomas Brox,  Abhinav Valada
备注:  8 pages, 4 figures, 3 tables, submitted to IROS 2024
Abstract:Teaching robots new skills quickly and conveniently is crucial for the broader adoption of robotic systems. In this work, we address the problem of one-shot imitation from a single human demonstration, given by an RGB-D video recording through a two-stage process. In the first stage which is offline, we extract the trajectory of the demonstration. This entails segmenting manipulated objects and determining their relative motion in relation to secondary objects such as containers. Subsequently, in the live online trajectory generation stage, we first \mbox{re-detect} all objects, then we warp the demonstration trajectory to the current scene, and finally, we trace the trajectory with the robot. To complete these steps, our method makes leverages several ancillary models, including those for segmentation, relative object pose estimation, and grasp prediction. We systematically evaluate different combinations of correspondence and re-detection methods to validate our design decision across a diverse range of tasks. Specifically, we collect demonstrations of ten different tasks including pick-and-place tasks as well as articulated object manipulation. Finally, we perform extensive evaluations on a real robot system to demonstrate the effectiveness and utility of our approach in real-world scenarios. We make the code publicly available at this http URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [91]
标题:  On the Weighted Top-Difference Distance: Axioms, Aggregation, and  Approximation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15198
作者:  Andrea Aveni,  Ludovico Crippa,  Giulio Principi
备注:  64 pages
Abstract:We study a family of distance functions on rankings that allow for asymmetric treatments of alternatives and consider the distinct relevance of the top and bottom positions for ordered lists. We provide a full axiomatic characterization of our distance. In doing so, we retrieve new characterizations of existing axioms and show how to effectively weaken them for our purposes. This analysis highlights the generality of our distance as it embeds many (semi)metrics previously proposed in the literature. Subsequently, we show that, notwithstanding its level of generality, our distance is still readily applicable. We apply it to preference aggregation, studying the features of the associated median voting rule. It is shown how the derived preference function satisfies many desirable features in the context of voting rules, ranging from fairness to majority and Pareto-related properties. We show how to compute consensus rankings exactly, and provide generalized Diaconis-Graham inequalities that can be leveraged to obtain approximation algorithms. Finally, we propose some truncation ideas for our distances inspired by Lu and Boutilier (2010). These can be leveraged to devise a Polynomial-Time-Approximation Scheme for the corresponding rank aggregation problem.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Theoretical Economics (econ.TH); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [92]
标题:  Cryptic Bytes: WebAssembly Obfuscation for Evading Cryptojacking  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15197
作者:  Håkon Harnes,  Donn Morrison
备注:  
Abstract:WebAssembly has gained significant traction as a high-performance, secure, and portable compilation target for the Web and beyond. However, its growing adoption has also introduced new security challenges. One such threat is cryptojacking, where websites mine cryptocurrencies on visitors' devices without their knowledge or consent, often through the use of WebAssembly. While detection methods have been proposed, research on circumventing them remains limited. In this paper, we present the most comprehensive evaluation of code obfuscation techniques for WebAssembly to date, assessing their effectiveness, detectability, and overhead across multiple abstraction levels. We obfuscate a diverse set of applications, including utilities, games, and crypto miners, using state-of-the-art obfuscation tools like Tigress and wasm-mutate, as well as our novel tool, emcc-obf. Our findings suggest that obfuscation can effectively produce dissimilar WebAssembly binaries, with Tigress proving most effective, followed by emcc-obf and wasm-mutate. The impact on the resulting native code is also significant, although the V8 engine's TurboFan optimizer can reduce native code size by 30\% on average. Notably, we find that obfuscation can successfully evade state-of-the-art cryptojacking detectors. Although obfuscation can introduce substantial performance overheads, we demonstrate how obfuscation can be used for evading detection with minimal overhead in real-world scenarios by strategically applying transformations. These insights are valuable for researchers, providing a foundation for developing more robust detection methods. Additionally, we make our dataset of over 20,000 obfuscated WebAssembly binaries and the emcc-obf tool publicly available to stimulate further research.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [93]
标题:  FSD-Inference: Fully Serverless Distributed Inference with Scalable  Cloud Communication
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15195
作者:  Joe Oakley,  Hakan Ferhatosmanoglu
备注:  In Proceedings of 2024 IEEE 40th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE) (to appear)
Abstract:Serverless computing offers attractive scalability, elasticity and cost-effectiveness. However, constraints on memory, CPU and function runtime have hindered its adoption for data-intensive applications and machine learning (ML) workloads. Traditional 'server-ful' platforms enable distributed computation via fast networks and well-established inter-process communication (IPC) mechanisms such as MPI and shared memory. In the absence of such solutions in the serverless domain, parallel computation with significant IPC requirements is challenging. We present FSD-Inference, the first fully serverless and highly scalable system for distributed ML inference. We explore potential communication channels, in conjunction with Function-as-a-Service (FaaS) compute, to design a state-of-the-art solution for distributed ML within the context of serverless data-intensive computing. We introduce novel fully serverless communication schemes for ML inference workloads, leveraging both cloud-based publish-subscribe/queueing and object storage offerings. We demonstrate how publish-subscribe/queueing services can be adapted for FaaS IPC with comparable performance to object storage, while offering significantly reduced cost at high parallelism levels. We conduct in-depth experiments on benchmark DNNs of various sizes. The results show that when compared to server-based alternatives, FSD-Inference is significantly more cost-effective and scalable, and can even achieve competitive performance against optimized HPC solutions. Experiments also confirm that our serverless solution can handle large distributed workloads and leverage high degrees of FaaS parallelism.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [94]
标题:  Your Image is My Video: Reshaping the Receptive Field via Image-To-Video  Differentiable AutoAugmentation and Fusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15194
作者:  Sofia Casarin,  Cynthia I. Ugwu,  Sergio Escalera,  Oswald Lanz
备注:  
Abstract:The landscape of deep learning research is moving towards innovative strategies to harness the true potential of data. Traditionally, emphasis has been on scaling model architectures, resulting in large and complex neural networks, which can be difficult to train with limited computational resources. However, independently of the model size, data quality (i.e. amount and variability) is still a major factor that affects model generalization. In this work, we propose a novel technique to exploit available data through the use of automatic data augmentation for the tasks of image classification and semantic segmentation. We introduce the first Differentiable Augmentation Search method (DAS) to generate variations of images that can be processed as videos. Compared to previous approaches, DAS is extremely fast and flexible, allowing the search on very large search spaces in less than a GPU day. Our intuition is that the increased receptive field in the temporal dimension provided by DAS could lead to benefits also to the spatial receptive field. More specifically, we leverage DAS to guide the reshaping of the spatial receptive field by selecting task-dependant transformations. As a result, compared to standard augmentation alternatives, we improve in terms of accuracy on ImageNet, Cifar10, Cifar100, Tiny-ImageNet, Pascal-VOC-2012 and CityScapes datasets when plugging-in our DAS over different light-weight video backbones.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [95]
标题:  SFOD: Spiking Fusion Object Detector
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15192
作者:  Yimeng Fan,  Wei Zhang,  Changsong Liu,  Mingyang Li,  Wenrui Lu
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:Event cameras, characterized by high temporal resolution, high dynamic range, low power consumption, and high pixel bandwidth, offer unique capabilities for object detection in specialized contexts. Despite these advantages, the inherent sparsity and asynchrony of event data pose challenges to existing object detection algorithms. Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs), inspired by the way the human brain codes and processes information, offer a potential solution to these difficulties. However, their performance in object detection using event cameras is limited in current implementations. In this paper, we propose the Spiking Fusion Object Detector (SFOD), a simple and efficient approach to SNN-based object detection. Specifically, we design a Spiking Fusion Module, achieving the first-time fusion of feature maps from different scales in SNNs applied to event cameras. Additionally, through integrating our analysis and experiments conducted during the pretraining of the backbone network on the NCAR dataset, we delve deeply into the impact of spiking decoding strategies and loss functions on model performance. Thereby, we establish state-of-the-art classification results based on SNNs, achieving 93.7\% accuracy on the NCAR dataset. Experimental results on the GEN1 detection dataset demonstrate that the SFOD achieves a state-of-the-art mAP of 32.1\%, outperforming existing SNN-based approaches. Our research not only underscores the potential of SNNs in object detection with event cameras but also propels the advancement of SNNs. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [96]
标题:  ECHO: Efficient Off-Chain Payments and Cross-Chain Swaps for  Cryptocurrencies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15191
作者:  Di Wu,  Jian Liu,  Zhengwei Hou,  Wu Wen,  Kui Ren
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present ECHO, a TEE-based layer-2 solution that tackles two crucial challenges in the realm of cryptocurrencies: off-chain payments and cross-chain swaps. It offers three notable features: - Channel-free off-chain payments: it allows a payer to make direct payments to anyone without requiring any on-chain relationship or intermediary channels. - Real-time yet decentralized cross-chain swaps: it is the first known solution that enables real-time cross-chain swaps without relying on a central server. This novel feature is made possible through a ground-breaking fair exchange protocol. - TEE crash-tolerance: it offers two solutions to handle TEE crashes, one of which involves an innovative application of time-lock puzzles in this context. We evaluate ECHO on a network consists of 1000 nodes and the evaluation results show that ECHO can achieve 7000 TPS
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [97]
标题:  Forecasting the load of Parcel Pickup Points using a Markov Jump Process
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15189
作者:  Thi-Thu-Tam Nguyen,  Adnane Cabani,  Iyadh Cabani,  Koen De Turck,  Michel Kieffer
备注:  
Abstract:The growth of e-commerce has resulted in a surge in parcel deliveries, increasing transportation costs and pollution issues. Alternatives to home delivery have emerged, such as the delivery to so-called parcel pick-up points (PUPs), which eliminates delivery failure due to customers not being at home. Nevertheless, parcels reaching overloaded PUPs may need to be redirected to alternative PUPs, sometimes far from the chosen ones, which may generate customer dissatisfaction. Consequently, predicting the PUP load is critical for a PUP management company to infer the availability of PUPs for future orders and better balance parcel flows between PUPs. This paper proposes a new approach to forecasting the PUP load evolution using a Markov jump process that models the parcel life cycle. The latest known status of each parcel is considered to estimate its contribution to the future load of its target PUP. This approach can account for the variability of activity, the various parcel preparation delays by sellers, and the diversity of parcel carriers that may result in different delivery delays. Here, results are provided for predicting the load associated with parcels ordered from online retailers by customers (Business-to-Customer, B2C). The proposed approach is generic and can also be applied to other parcel flows to PUPs, such as second-hand products (Customer-to-Customer, C2C) sent via a PUP network.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [98]
标题:  Investigating the Performance of Language Models for Completing Code in  Functional Programming Languages: a Haskell Case Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15185
作者:  Tim van Dam,  Frank van der Heijden,  Philippe de Bekker,  Berend Nieuwschepen,  Marc Otten,  Maliheh Izadi
备注:  To appear in the First Special Event on AI Foundation Models and Software Engineering (FORGE 2024)
Abstract:Language model-based code completion models have quickly grown in use, helping thousands of developers write code in many different programming languages. However, research on code completion models typically focuses on imperative languages such as Python and JavaScript, which results in a lack of representation for functional programming languages. Consequently, these models often perform poorly on functional languages such as Haskell. To investigate whether this can be alleviated, we evaluate the performance of two language models for code, CodeGPT and UniXcoder, on the functional programming language Haskell. We fine-tune and evaluate the models on Haskell functions sourced from a publicly accessible Haskell dataset on HuggingFace. Additionally, we manually evaluate the models using our novel translated HumanEval dataset. Our automatic evaluation shows that knowledge of imperative programming languages in the pre-training of LLMs may not transfer well to functional languages, but that code completion on functional languages is feasible. Consequently, this shows the need for more high-quality Haskell datasets. A manual evaluation on HumanEval-Haskell indicates CodeGPT frequently generates empty predictions and extra comments, while UniXcoder more often produces incomplete or incorrect predictions. Finally, we release HumanEval-Haskell, along with the fine-tuned models and all code required to reproduce our experiments on GitHub (this https URL).
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [99]
标题:  CRPlace: Camera-Radar Fusion with BEV Representation for Place  Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15183
作者:  Shaowei Fu,  Yifan Duan,  Yao Li,  Chengzhen Meng,  Yingjie Wang,  Jianmin Ji,  Yanyong Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The integration of complementary characteristics from camera and radar data has emerged as an effective approach in 3D object detection. However, such fusion-based methods remain unexplored for place recognition, an equally important task for autonomous systems. Given that place recognition relies on the similarity between a query scene and the corresponding candidate scene, the stationary background of a scene is expected to play a crucial role in the task. As such, current well-designed camera-radar fusion methods for 3D object detection can hardly take effect in place recognition because they mainly focus on dynamic foreground objects. In this paper, a background-attentive camera-radar fusion-based method, named CRPlace, is proposed to generate background-attentive global descriptors from multi-view images and radar point clouds for accurate place recognition. To extract stationary background features effectively, we design an adaptive module that generates the background-attentive mask by utilizing the camera BEV feature and radar dynamic points. With the guidance of a background mask, we devise a bidirectional cross-attention-based spatial fusion strategy to facilitate comprehensive spatial interaction between the background information of the camera BEV feature and the radar BEV feature. As the first camera-radar fusion-based place recognition network, CRPlace has been evaluated thoroughly on the nuScenes dataset. The results show that our algorithm outperforms a variety of baseline methods across a comprehensive set of metrics (recall@1 reaches 91.2%).
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [100]
标题:  PDE-CNNs: Axiomatic Derivations and Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15182
作者:  Gijs Bellaard,  Sei Sakata,  Bart M. N. Smets,  Remco Duits
备注:  
Abstract:PDE-based Group Convolutional Neural Networks (PDE-G-CNNs) utilize solvers of geometrically meaningful evolution PDEs as substitutes for the conventional components in G-CNNs. PDE-G-CNNs offer several key benefits all at once: fewer parameters, inherent equivariance, better performance, data efficiency, and geometric interpretability. In this article we focus on Euclidean equivariant PDE-G-CNNs where the feature maps are two dimensional throughout. We call this variant of the framework a PDE-CNN. We list several practically desirable axioms and derive from these which PDEs should be used in a PDE-CNN. Here our approach to geometric learning via PDEs is inspired by the axioms of classical linear and morphological scale-space theory, which we generalize by introducing semifield-valued signals. Furthermore, we experimentally confirm for small networks that PDE-CNNs offer fewer parameters, better performance, and data efficiency in comparison to CNNs. We also investigate what effect the use of different semifields has on the performance of the models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [101]
标题:  A Two Level Neural Approach Combining Off-Chip Prediction with Adaptive  Prefetch Filtering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15181
作者:  Alexandre Valentin Jamet,  Georgios Vavouliotis,  Daniel A. Jiménez,  Lluc Alvarez,  Marc Casas
备注:  To appear in 30th International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA), 2024
Abstract:To alleviate the performance and energy overheads of contemporary applications with large data footprints, we propose the Two Level Perceptron (TLP) predictor, a neural mechanism that effectively combines predicting whether an access will be off-chip with adaptive prefetch filtering at the first-level data cache (L1D). TLP is composed of two connected microarchitectural perceptron predictors, named First Level Predictor (FLP) and Second Level Predictor (SLP). FLP performs accurate off-chip prediction by using several program features based on virtual addresses and a novel selective delay component. The novelty of SLP relies on leveraging off-chip prediction to drive L1D prefetch filtering by using physical addresses and the FLP prediction as features. TLP constitutes the first hardware proposal targeting both off-chip prediction and prefetch filtering using a multi-level perceptron hardware approach. TLP only requires 7KB of storage. To demonstrate the benefits of TLP we compare its performance with state-of-the-art approaches using off-chip prediction and prefetch filtering on a wide range of single-core and multi-core workloads. Our experiments show that TLP reduces the average DRAM transactions by 30.7% and 17.7%, as compared to a baseline using state-of-the-art cache prefetchers but no off-chip prediction mechanism, across the single-core and multi-core workloads, respectively, while recent work significantly increases DRAM transactions. As a result, TLP achieves geometric mean performance speedups of 6.2% and 11.8% across single-core and multi-core workloads, respectively. In addition, our evaluation demonstrates that TLP is effective independently of the L1D prefetching logic.
Subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)

**编号**: [102]
标题:  Self-Improvement for Neural Combinatorial Optimization: Sample without  Replacement, but Improvement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15180
作者:  Jonathan Pirnay,  Dominik G. Grimm
备注:  
Abstract:Current methods for end-to-end constructive neural combinatorial optimization usually train a policy using behavior cloning from expert solutions or policy gradient methods from reinforcement learning. While behavior cloning is straightforward, it requires expensive expert solutions, and policy gradient methods are often computationally demanding and complex to fine-tune. In this work, we bridge the two and simplify the training process by sampling multiple solutions for random instances using the current model in each epoch and then selecting the best solution as an expert trajectory for supervised imitation learning. To achieve progressively improving solutions with minimal sampling, we introduce a method that combines round-wise Stochastic Beam Search with an update strategy derived from a provable policy improvement. This strategy refines the policy between rounds by utilizing the advantage of the sampled sequences with almost no computational overhead. We evaluate our approach on the Traveling Salesman Problem and the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem. The models trained with our method achieve comparable performance and generalization to those trained with expert data. Additionally, we apply our method to the Job Shop Scheduling Problem using a transformer-based architecture and outperform existing state-of-the-art methods by a wide margin.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [103]
标题:  LSK3DNet: Towards Effective and Efficient 3D Perception with Large  Sparse Kernels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15173
作者:  Tuo Feng,  Wenguan Wang,  Fan Ma,  Yi Yang
备注:  Accepted at CVPR 2024; Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Autonomous systems need to process large-scale, sparse, and irregular point clouds with limited compute resources. Consequently, it is essential to develop LiDAR perception methods that are both efficient and effective. Although naively enlarging 3D kernel size can enhance performance, it will also lead to a cubically-increasing overhead. Therefore, it is crucial to develop streamlined 3D large kernel designs that eliminate redundant weights and work effectively with larger kernels. In this paper, we propose an efficient and effective Large Sparse Kernel 3D Neural Network (LSK3DNet) that leverages dynamic pruning to amplify the 3D kernel size. Our method comprises two core components: Spatial-wise Dynamic Sparsity (SDS) and Channel-wise Weight Selection (CWS). SDS dynamically prunes and regrows volumetric weights from the beginning to learn a large sparse 3D kernel. It not only boosts performance but also significantly reduces model size and computational cost. Moreover, CWS selects the most important channels for 3D convolution during training and subsequently prunes the redundant channels to accelerate inference for 3D vision tasks. We demonstrate the effectiveness of LSK3DNet on three benchmark datasets and five tracks compared with classical models and large kernel designs. Notably, LSK3DNet achieves the state-of-the-art performance on SemanticKITTI (i.e., 75.6% on single-scan and 63.4% on multi-scan), with roughly 40% model size reduction and 60% computing operations reduction compared to the naive large 3D kernel model.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [104]
标题:  AV-Occupant Perceived Risk Model for Cut-In Scenarios with Empirical  Evaluation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15171
作者:  Sarah Barendswaard,  Tong Duy Son
备注:  
Abstract:Advancements in autonomous vehicle (AV) technologies necessitate precise estimation of perceived risk to enhance user comfort, acceptance and trust. This paper introduces a novel AV-Occupant Risk (AVOR) model designed for perceived risk estimation during AV cut-in scenarios. An empirical study is conducted with 18 participants with realistic cut-in scenarios. Two factors were investigated: scenario risk and scene population. 76% of subjective risk responses indicate an increase in perceived risk at cut-in initiation. The existing perceived risk model did not capture this critical phenomenon. Our AVOR model demonstrated a significant improvement in estimating perceived risk during the early stages of cut-ins, especially for the high-risk scenario, enhancing modelling accuracy by up to 54%. The concept of the AVOR model can quantify perceived risk in other diverse driving contexts characterized by dynamic uncertainties, enhancing the reliability and human-centred focus of AV systems.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [105]
标题:  Exploring the Task-agnostic Trait of Self-supervised Learning in the  Context of Detecting Mental Disorders
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15170
作者:  Rohan Kumar Gupta,  Rohit Sinha
备注:  
Abstract:Self-supervised learning (SSL) has been investigated to generate task-agnostic representations across various domains. However, such investigation has not been conducted for detecting multiple mental disorders. The rationale behind the existence of a task-agnostic representation lies in the overlapping symptoms among multiple mental disorders. Consequently, the behavioural data collected for mental health assessment may carry a mixed bag of attributes related to multiple disorders. Motivated by that, in this study, we explore a task-agnostic representation derived through SSL in the context of detecting major depressive disorder (MDD) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) using audio and video data collected during interactive sessions. This study employs SSL models trained by predicting multiple fixed targets or masked frames. We propose a list of fixed targets to make the generated representation more efficient for detecting MDD and PTSD. Furthermore, we modify the hyper-parameters of the SSL encoder predicting fixed targets to generate global representations that capture varying temporal contexts. Both these innovations are noted to yield improved detection performances for considered mental disorders and exhibit task-agnostic traits. In the context of the SSL model predicting masked frames, the generated global representations are also noted to exhibit task-agnostic traits.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [106]
标题:  Towards Deep Learning Enabled Cybersecurity Risk Assessment for  Microservice Architectures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15169
作者:  Majid Abdulsatar,  Hussain Ahmad,  Diksha Goel,  Faheem Ullah
备注:  
Abstract:The widespread adoption of microservice architectures has given rise to a new set of software security challenges. These challenges stem from the unique features inherent in microservices. It is important to systematically assess and address software security challenges such as software security risk assessment. However, existing approaches prove inefficient in accurately evaluating the security risks associated with microservice architectures. To address this issue, we propose CyberWise Predictor, a framework designed for predicting and assessing security risks associated with microservice architectures. Our framework employs deep learning-based natural language processing models to analyze vulnerability descriptions for predicting vulnerability metrics to assess security risks. Our experimental evaluation shows the effectiveness of CyberWise Predictor, achieving an average accuracy of 92% in automatically predicting vulnerability metrics for new vulnerabilities. Our framework and findings serve as a guide for software developers to identify and mitigate security risks in microservice architectures.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [107]
标题:  Transition Graph Properties of Target Class Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15167
作者:  Levon Aslanyan,  Hasmik Sahakyan
备注:  14pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Target class classification is a mixed classification and transition model whose integrated goal is to assign objects to a certain, so called target or normal class. The classification process is iterative, and in each step an object in a certain class undergoes an action attached to that class, initiating the transition of the object to one of the classes. The sequence of transitions, which we call class transitions, must be designed to provide the final assignment of objects to the target class. The transition process can be described in the form of a directed graph, and the success of the final classification is mainly due to the properties of this graph. In our previous research we showed that the desirable structure of the transition graph is an oriented rooted tree with orientation towards the root vertex, which corresponds to the normal class. It is clear that the transition graph of an arbitrary algorithm (policy) may not have this property. In this paper we study the structure of realistic transition graphs, which makes it possible to find classification inconsistencies, helping to transfer it into the desired form. The medical interpretation of dynamic treatment regime considered in the article further clarifies the investigated framework.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [108]
标题:  Channel Orthogonalization with Reconfigurable Surfaces: General Models,  Theoretical Limits, and Effective Configuration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15165
作者:  Juan Vidal Alegría,  Johan Thunberg,  Ove Edfors
备注:  13 pages, 4 figures. This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication, copyright information may be affected upon publication
Abstract:We envision a future in which multi-antenna technology effectively exploits the spatial domain as a set of non-interfering orthogonal resources, allowing for flexible resource allocation and efficient modulation/demodulation. Reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS) has emerged as a promising technology which allows shaping the propagation environment for improved performance. This paper studies the ability of three extended types of reconfigurable surface (RS), including the recently proposed beyond diagonal RIS (BD-RIS), to achieve perfectly orthogonal channels in a general multi-user multiple-input multiple-output (MU-MIMO) scenario. We propose practical implementations for the three types of RS consisting of passive components, and obtain the corresponding restrictions on their reconfigurability. We then use these restrictions to derive closed-form conditions for achieving arbitrary (orthogonal) channels. We also study the problem of optimal orthogonal channel selection for achieving high channel gain without active amplification at the RS, and we propose some methods with satisfying performance. Finally, we provide efficient channel estimation and RS configuration techniques such that all the computation, including the channel selection, may be performed at the base station (BS). The numerical results showcase the potential and practicality of RS channel orthogonalization, thus taking a step towards orthogonal spatial domain multiplexing (OSDM).
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [109]
标题:  FastCAD: Real-Time CAD Retrieval and Alignment from Scans and Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15161
作者:  Florian Langer,  Jihong Ju,  Georgi Dikov,  Gerhard Reitmayr,  Mohsen Ghafoorian
备注:  
Abstract:Digitising the 3D world into a clean, CAD model-based representation has important applications for augmented reality and robotics. Current state-of-the-art methods are computationally intensive as they individually encode each detected object and optimise CAD alignments in a second stage. In this work, we propose FastCAD, a real-time method that simultaneously retrieves and aligns CAD models for all objects in a given scene. In contrast to previous works, we directly predict alignment parameters and shape embeddings. We achieve high-quality shape retrievals by learning CAD embeddings in a contrastive learning framework and distilling those into FastCAD. Our single-stage method accelerates the inference time by a factor of 50 compared to other methods operating on RGB-D scans while outperforming them on the challenging Scan2CAD alignment benchmark. Further, our approach collaborates seamlessly with online 3D reconstruction techniques. This enables the real-time generation of precise CAD model-based reconstructions from videos at 10 FPS. Doing so, we significantly improve the Scan2CAD alignment accuracy in the video setting from 43.0% to 48.2% and the reconstruction accuracy from 22.9% to 29.6%.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [110]
标题:  AllHands: Ask Me Anything on Large-scale Verbatim Feedback via Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15157
作者:  Chaoyun Zhang,  Zicheng Ma,  Yuhao Wu,  Shilin He,  Si Qin,  Minghua Ma,  Xiaoting Qin,  Yu Kang,  Yuyi Liang,  Xiaoyu Gou,  Yajie Xue,  Qingwei Lin,  Saravan Rajmohan,  Dongmei Zhang,  Qi Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Verbatim feedback constitutes a valuable repository of user experiences, opinions, and requirements essential for software development. Effectively and efficiently extracting valuable insights from such data poses a challenging task. This paper introduces Allhands , an innovative analytic framework designed for large-scale feedback analysis through a natural language interface, leveraging large language models (LLMs). Allhands adheres to a conventional feedback analytic workflow, initially conducting classification and topic modeling on the feedback to convert them into a structurally augmented format, incorporating LLMs to enhance accuracy, robustness, generalization, and user-friendliness. Subsequently, an LLM agent is employed to interpret users' diverse questions in natural language on feedback, translating them into Python code for execution, and delivering comprehensive multi-modal responses, including text, code, tables, and images. We evaluate Allhands across three diverse feedback datasets. The experiments demonstrate that Allhands achieves superior efficacy at all stages of analysis, including classification and topic modeling, eventually providing users with an ``ask me anything'' experience with comprehensive, correct and human-readable response. To the best of our knowledge, Allhands stands as the first comprehensive feedback analysis framework that supports diverse and customized requirements for insight extraction through a natural language interface.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [111]
标题:  Infrastructure-Assisted Collaborative Perception in Automated Valet  Parking: A Safety Perspective
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15156
作者:  Yukuan Jia,  Jiawen Zhang,  Shimeng Lu,  Baokang Fan,  Ruiqing Mao,  Sheng Zhou,  Zhisheng Niu
备注:  7 pages, 7 figures, 4 tables, accepted by IEEE VTC2024-Spring
Abstract:Environmental perception in Automated Valet Parking (AVP) has been a challenging task due to severe occlusions in parking garages. Although Collaborative Perception (CP) can be applied to broaden the field of view of connected vehicles, the limited bandwidth of vehicular communications restricts its application. In this work, we propose a BEV feature-based CP network architecture for infrastructure-assisted AVP systems. The model takes the roadside camera and LiDAR as optional inputs and adaptively fuses them with onboard sensors in a unified BEV representation. Autoencoder and downsampling are applied for channel-wise and spatial-wise dimension reduction, while sparsification and quantization further compress the feature map with little loss in data precision. Combining these techniques, the size of a BEV feature map is effectively compressed to fit in the feasible data rate of the NR-V2X network. With the synthetic AVP dataset, we observe that CP can effectively increase perception performance, especially for pedestrians. Moreover, the advantage of infrastructure-assisted CP is demonstrated in two typical safety-critical scenarios in the AVP setting, increasing the maximum safe cruising speed by up to 3m/s in both scenarios.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [112]
标题:  A Multimodal Approach for Cross-Domain Image Retrieval
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15152
作者:  Lucas Iijima,  Tania Stathaki
备注:  
Abstract:Image generators are gaining vast amount of popularity and have rapidly changed how digital content is created. With the latest AI technology, millions of high quality images are being generated by the public, which are constantly motivating the research community to push the limits of generative models to create more complex and realistic images. This paper focuses on Cross-Domain Image Retrieval (CDIR) which can be used as an additional tool to inspect collections of generated images by determining the level of similarity between images in a dataset. An ideal retrieval system would be able to generalize to unseen complex images from multiple domains (e.g., photos, drawings and paintings). To address this goal, we propose a novel caption-matching approach that leverages multimodal language-vision architectures pre-trained on large datasets. The method is tested on DomainNet and Office-Home datasets and consistently achieves state-of-the-art performance over the latest approaches in the literature for cross-domain image retrieval. In order to verify the effectiveness with AI-generated images, the method was also put to test with a database composed by samples collected from Midjourney, which is a widely used generative platform for content creation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [113]
标题:  RHINO-VR Experience: Teaching Mobile Robotics Concepts in an Interactive  Museum Exhibit
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15151
作者:  Erik Schlachhoff,  Nils Dengler,  Leif Van Holland,  Patrick Stotko,  Jorge de Heuvel,  Reinhard Klein,  Maren Bennewitz
备注:  Submitted to IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communication (RO-MAN)
Abstract:In 1997, the very first tour guide robot RHINO was deployed in a museum in Germany. With the ability to navigate autonomously through the environment, the robot gave tours to over 2,000 visitors. Today, RHINO itself has become an exhibit and is no longer operational. In this paper, we present RHINO-VR, an interactive museum exhibit using virtual reality (VR) that allows museum visitors to experience the historical robot RHINO in operation in a virtual museum. RHINO-VR, unlike static exhibits, enables users to familiarize themselves with basic mobile robotics concepts without the fear of damaging the exhibit. In the virtual environment, the user is able to interact with RHINO in VR by pointing to a location to which the robot should navigate and observing the corresponding actions of the robot. To include other visitors who cannot use the VR, we provide an external observation view to make RHINO visible to them. We evaluated our system by measuring the frame rate of the VR simulation, comparing the generated virtual 3D models with the originals, and conducting a user study. The user-study showed that RHINO-VR improved the visitors' understanding of the robot's functionality and that they would recommend experiencing the VR exhibit to others.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [114]
标题:  An In-Depth Analysis of Data Reduction Methods for Sustainable Deep  Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15150
作者:  Víctor Toscano-Durán,  Javier Perera-Lago,  Eduardo Paluzo-Hidalgo,  Rocío Gonzalez-Diaz,  Miguel Ángel Gutierrez-Naranjo,  Matteo Rucco
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, Deep Learning has gained popularity for its ability to solve complex classification tasks, increasingly delivering better results thanks to the development of more accurate models, the availability of huge volumes of data and the improved computational capabilities of modern computers. However, these improvements in performance also bring efficiency problems, related to the storage of datasets and models, and to the waste of energy and time involved in both the training and inference processes. In this context, data reduction can help reduce energy consumption when training a deep learning model. In this paper, we present up to eight different methods to reduce the size of a tabular training dataset, and we develop a Python package to apply them. We also introduce a representativeness metric based on topology to measure how similar are the reduced datasets and the full training dataset. Additionally, we develop a methodology to apply these data reduction methods to image datasets for object detection tasks. Finally, we experimentally compare how these data reduction methods affect the representativeness of the reduced dataset, the energy consumption and the predictive performance of the model.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [115]
标题:  On the Generalizability of Deep Learning-based Code Completion Across  Programming Language Versions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15149
作者:  Matteo Ciniselli,  Alberto Martin-Lopez,  Gabriele Bavota
备注:  
Abstract:Code completion is a key feature of Integrated Development Environments (IDEs), aimed at predicting the next tokens a developer is likely to write, helping them write code faster and with less effort. Modern code completion approaches are often powered by deep learning (DL) models. However, the swift evolution of programming languages poses a critical challenge to the performance of DL-based code completion models: Can these models generalize across different language versions? This paper delves into such a question. In particular, we assess the capabilities of a state-of-the-art model, CodeT5, to generalize across nine different Java versions, ranging from Java 2 to Java 17, while being exclusively trained on Java 8 code. Our evaluation spans three completion scenarios, namely, predicting tokens, constructs (e.g., the condition of an if statement) and entire code blocks. The results of our study reveal a noticeable disparity among language versions, with the worst performance being obtained in Java 2 and 17 - the most far apart versions compared to Java 8. We investigate possible causes for the performance degradation and show that the adoption of a limited version-specific fine-tuning can partially alleviate the problem. Our work raises awareness on the importance of continuous model refinement, and it can inform the design of alternatives to make code completion models more robust to language evolution.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [116]
标题:  Splitting methods for unbounded operators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15147
作者:  Arieh Iserles,  Karolina Kropielnicka
备注:  
Abstract:This paper considers computational methods that split a vector field into three components in the case when both the vector field and the split components might be unbounded. We first employ classical Taylor expansion which, after some algebra, results in an expression for a second-order splitting which, strictly speaking, makes sense only for bounded operators. Next, using an alternative approach, we derive an error expression and an error bound in the same setting which are however valid in the presence of unbounded operators. While the paper itself is concerned with second-order splittings using three components, the method of proof in the presence of unboundedness remains valid (although significantly more complicated) in a more general scenario, which will be the subject of a forthcoming paper.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [117]
标题:  On the Convergence of Adam under Non-uniform Smoothness: Separability  from SGDM and Beyond
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15146
作者:  Bohan Wang,  Huishuai Zhang,  Qi Meng,  Ruoyu Sun,  Zhi-Ming Ma,  Wei Chen
备注:  
Abstract:This paper aims to clearly distinguish between Stochastic Gradient Descent with Momentum (SGDM) and Adam in terms of their convergence rates. We demonstrate that Adam achieves a faster convergence compared to SGDM under the condition of non-uniformly bounded smoothness. Our findings reveal that: (1) in deterministic environments, Adam can attain the known lower bound for the convergence rate of deterministic first-order optimizers, whereas the convergence rate of Gradient Descent with Momentum (GDM) has higher order dependence on the initial function value; (2) in stochastic setting, Adam's convergence rate upper bound matches the lower bounds of stochastic first-order optimizers, considering both the initial function value and the final error, whereas there are instances where SGDM fails to converge with any learning rate. These insights distinctly differentiate Adam and SGDM regarding their convergence rates. Additionally, by introducing a novel stopping-time based technique, we further prove that if we consider the minimum gradient norm during iterations, the corresponding convergence rate can match the lower bounds across all problem hyperparameters. The technique can also help proving that Adam with a specific hyperparameter scheduler is parameter-agnostic, which hence can be of independent interest.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [118]
标题:  Robust Resource Allocation for STAR-RIS Assisted SWIPT Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15145
作者:  Guangyu Zhu,  Xidong Mu,  Li Guo,  Ao Huang,  Shibiao Xu
备注:  
Abstract:A simultaneously transmitting and reflecting reconfigurable intelligent surface (STAR-RIS) assisted simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) system is proposed. More particularly, an STAR-RIS is deployed to assist in the information/power transfer from a multi-antenna access point (AP) to multiple single-antenna information users (IUs) and energy users (EUs), where two practical STAR-RIS operating protocols, namely energy splitting (ES) and time switching (TS), are employed. Under the imperfect channel state information (CSI) condition, a multi-objective optimization problem (MOOP) framework, that simultaneously maximizes the minimum data rate and minimum harvested power, is employed to investigate the fundamental rate-energy trade-off between IUs and EUs. To obtain the optimal robust resource allocation strategy, the MOOP is first transformed into a single-objective optimization problem (SOOP) via the {\epsilon}-constraint method, which is then reformulated by approximating semi-infinite inequality constraints with the S-procedure. For ES, an alternating optimization (AO)-based algorithm is proposed to jointly design AP active beamforming and STAR-RIS passive beamforming, where a penalty method is leveraged in STAR-RIS beamforming design. Furthermore, the developed algorithm is extended to optimize the time allocation policy and beamforming vectors in a two-layer iterative manner for TS. Numerical results reveal that: 1) deploying STAR-RISs achieves a significant performance gain over conventional RISs, especially in terms of harvested power for EUs; 2) the ES protocol obtains a better user fairness performance when focusing only on IUs or EUs, while the TS protocol yields a better balance between IUs and EUs; 3) the imperfect CSI affects IUs more significantly than EUs, whereas TS can confer a more robust design to attenuate these effects.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [119]
标题:  Modular Deep Active Learning Framework for Image Annotation: A Technical  Report for the Ophthalmo-AI Project
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15143
作者:  Md Abdul Kadir,  Hasan Md Tusfiqur Alam,  Pascale Maul,  Hans-Jürgen Profitlich,  Moritz Wolf,  Daniel Sonntag
备注:  DFKI Technical Report
Abstract:Image annotation is one of the most essential tasks for guaranteeing proper treatment for patients and tracking progress over the course of therapy in the field of medical imaging and disease diagnosis. However, manually annotating a lot of 2D and 3D imaging data can be extremely tedious. Deep Learning (DL) based segmentation algorithms have completely transformed this process and made it possible to automate image segmentation. By accurately segmenting medical images, these algorithms can greatly minimize the time and effort necessary for manual annotation. Additionally, by incorporating Active Learning (AL) methods, these segmentation algorithms can perform far more effectively with a smaller amount of ground truth data. We introduce MedDeepCyleAL, an end-to-end framework implementing the complete AL cycle. It provides researchers with the flexibility to choose the type of deep learning model they wish to employ and includes an annotation tool that supports the classification and segmentation of medical images. The user-friendly interface allows for easy alteration of the AL and DL model settings through a configuration file, requiring no prior programming experience. While MedDeepCyleAL can be applied to any kind of image data, we have specifically applied it to ophthalmology data in this project.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [120]
标题:  ALPINE: a climbing robot for operations in mountain environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15142
作者:  Michele Focchi,  Andrea Del Prete,  Daniele Fontanelli,  Marco Frego,  Angelika Peer,  Luigi Palopoli
备注:  
Abstract:Mountain slopes are perfect examples of harsh environments in which humans are required to perform difficult and dangerous operations such as removing unstable boulders, dangerous vegetation or deploying safety nets. A good replacement for human intervention can be offered by climbing robots. The different solutions existing in the literature are not up to the task for the difficulty of the requirements (navigation, heavy payloads, flexibility in the execution of the tasks). In this paper, we propose a robotic platform that can fill this gap. Our solution is based on a robot that hangs on ropes, and uses a retractable leg to jump away from the mountain walls. Our package of mechanical solutions, along with the algorithms developed for motion planning and control, delivers swift navigation on irregular and steep slopes, the possibility to overcome or travel around significant natural barriers, and the ability to carry heavy payloads and execute complex tasks. In the paper, we give a full account of our main design and algorithmic choices and show the feasibility of the solution through a large number of physically simulated scenarios.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [121]
标题:  Hybrid integrator-gain system based integral resonant controllers for  negative imaginary systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15140
作者:  Kanghong Shi,  Ian R. Petersen
备注:  9 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:We introduce a hybrid control system called a hybrid integrator-gain system (HIGS) based integral resonant controller (IRC) to stabilize negative imaginary (NI) systems. A HIGS-based IRC has a similar structure to an IRC, with the integrator replaced by a HIGS. We show that a HIGS-based IRC is an NI system. Also, for a SISO NI system with a minimal realization, we show there exists a HIGS-based IRC such that their closed-loop interconnection is asymptotically stable. Also, we propose a proportional-integral-double-integral resonant controller and a HIGS-based proportional-integral-double-integral resonant controller and show that both of them can be applied to asymptotically stabilize an NI system. An example is provided to illustrate the proposed results.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [122]
标题:  Deep Generative Model based Rate-Distortion for Image Downscaling  Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15139
作者:  Yuanbang Liang,  Bhavesh Garg,  Paul L Rosin,  Yipeng Qin
备注:  Accepted at CVPR 2024
Abstract:In this paper, we propose Image Downscaling Assessment by Rate-Distortion (IDA-RD), a novel measure to quantitatively evaluate image downscaling algorithms. In contrast to image-based methods that measure the quality of downscaled images, ours is process-based that draws ideas from rate-distortion theory to measure the distortion incurred during downscaling. Our main idea is that downscaling and super-resolution (SR) can be viewed as the encoding and decoding processes in the rate-distortion model, respectively, and that a downscaling algorithm that preserves more details in the resulting low-resolution (LR) images should lead to less distorted high-resolution (HR) images in SR. In other words, the distortion should increase as the downscaling algorithm deteriorates. However, it is non-trivial to measure this distortion as it requires the SR algorithm to be blind and stochastic. Our key insight is that such requirements can be met by recent SR algorithms based on deep generative models that can find all matching HR images for a given LR image on their learned image manifolds. Extensive experimental results show the effectiveness of our IDA-RD measure.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [123]
标题:  CACA Agent: Capability Collaboration based AI Agent
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15137
作者:  Peng Xu,  Haoran Wang,  Chuang Wang,  Xu Liu
备注:  4 pages,5 figures
Abstract:As AI Agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown potential in practical applications across various fields, how to quickly deploy an AI agent and how to conveniently expand the application scenario of AI agents has become a challenge. Previous studies mainly focused on implementing all the reasoning capabilities of AI agents within a single LLM, which often makes the model more complex and also reduces the extensibility of AI agent functionality. In this paper, we propose CACA Agent (Capability Collaboration based AI Agent), using an open architecture inspired by service computing. CACA Agent integrates a set of collaborative capabilities to implement AI Agents, not only reducing the dependence on a single LLM, but also enhancing the extensibility of both the planning abilities and the tools available to AI agents. Utilizing the proposed system, we present a demo to illustrate the operation and the application scenario extension of CACA Agent.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [124]
标题:  Mixed finite element methods for linear Cosserat equations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15136
作者:  Wietse Marijn Boon,  Omar Duran,  Jan Martin Nordbotten
备注:  
Abstract:We consider the equilibrium equations for a linearized Cosserat material. We identify their structure in terms of a differential complex, which is isomorphic to six copies of the de Rham complex through an algebraic isomorphism. Moreover, we show how the Cosserat materials can be analyzed by inheriting results from linearized elasticity. Both perspectives give rise to mixed finite element methods, which we refer to as strongly and weaky coupled, respectively. We prove convergence of both classes of methods, with particular attention to improved convergence rate estimates, and stability in the limit of vanishing Cosserat material parameters. The theoretical results are fully reflected in the actual performance of the methods, as shown by the numerical verifications.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [125]
标题:  Transfer CLIP for Generalizable Image Denoising
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15132
作者:  Jun Cheng,  Dong Liang,  Shan Tan
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:Image denoising is a fundamental task in computer vision. While prevailing deep learning-based supervised and self-supervised methods have excelled in eliminating in-distribution noise, their susceptibility to out-of-distribution (OOD) noise remains a significant challenge. The recent emergence of contrastive language-image pre-training (CLIP) model has showcased exceptional capabilities in open-world image recognition and segmentation. Yet, the potential for leveraging CLIP to enhance the robustness of low-level tasks remains largely unexplored. This paper uncovers that certain dense features extracted from the frozen ResNet image encoder of CLIP exhibit distortion-invariant and content-related properties, which are highly desirable for generalizable denoising. Leveraging these properties, we devise an asymmetrical encoder-decoder denoising network, which incorporates dense features including the noisy image and its multi-scale features from the frozen ResNet encoder of CLIP into a learnable image decoder to achieve generalizable denoising. The progressive feature augmentation strategy is further proposed to mitigate feature overfitting and improve the robustness of the learnable decoder. Extensive experiments and comparisons conducted across diverse OOD noises, including synthetic noise, real-world sRGB noise, and low-dose CT image noise, demonstrate the superior generalization ability of our method.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [126]
标题:  Uplink soft handover for LEO constellations: how strong the  inter-satellite link should be
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15131
作者:  Houcem Ben Salem,  Alberto Tarable,  Alessandro Nordio,  Behrooz Makki
备注:  
Abstract:We consider a constellation of low-earth-orbit (LEO) satellites connected to a handheld device on the ground. Due to the very large orbital speed, an effective handover strategy becomes of paramount importance. In particular, we study the benefits of soft handover in the uplink from the physical-layer point of view. We give a realistic model for both the ground-to-satellite and the inter-satellite links, following the 3GPP channel model for the former. We suppose that, during handover from a serving satellite to a target satellite, one of the two satellites forwards the received signal from the ground user to the other, thus acting as a relay. We quantify through simulations the loss of hard handover, compared to soft handover. For the latter, we test both amplify-and-forward (AF) and decode-and-forward (DF) relaying techniques and verify that, at least in the simulated conditions, DF does not repay, in terms of block error rate (BLER), the increase of complexity with respect to AF. Also, we study the effect of the LEO constellation size on the network BLER. Finally, we show that, with soft handover, the impact of misalignment on the inter-satellite link is severe, especially at optical frequencies.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [127]
标题:  Coexisting Passive RIS and Active Relay Assisted NOMA Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15130
作者:  Ao Huang,  Li Guo,  Xidong Mu,  Chao Dong,  Yuanwei Liu
备注:  
Abstract:A novel coexisting passive reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS) and active decode-and-forward (DF) relay assisted non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) transmission framework is proposed. In particular, two communication protocols are conceived, namely Hybrid NOMA (H-NOMA) and Full NOMA (F-NOMA). Based on the proposed two protocols, both the sum rate maximization and max-min rate fairness problems are formulated for jointly optimizing the power allocation at the access point and relay as well as the passive beamforming design at the RIS. To tackle the non-convex problems, an alternating optimization (AO) based algorithm is first developed, where the transmit power and the RIS phase-shift are alternatingly optimized by leveraging the two-dimensional search and rank-relaxed difference-of-convex (DC) programming, respectively. Then, a two-layer penalty based joint optimization (JO) algorithm is developed to jointly optimize the resource allocation coefficients within each iteration. Finally, numerical results demonstrate that: i) the proposed coexisting RIS and relay assisted transmission framework is capable of achieving a significant user performance improvement than conventional schemes without RIS or relay; ii) compared with the AO algorithm, the JO algorithm requires less execution time at the cost of a slight performance loss; and iii) the H-NOMA and F-NOMA protocols are generally preferable for ensuring user rate fairness and enhancing user sum rate, respectively.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [128]
标题:  An Agent-Centric Perspective on Norm Enforcement and Sanctions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15128
作者:  Elena Yan,  Luis G. Nardin,  Jomi F. Hübner,  Olivier Boissier
备注:  
Abstract:In increasingly autonomous and highly distributed multi-agent systems, centralized coordination becomes impractical and raises the need for governance and enforcement mechanisms from an agent-centric perspective. In our conceptual view, sanctioning norm enforcement is part of this agent-centric approach and they aim at promoting norm compliance while preserving agents' autonomy. The few works dealing with sanctioning norm enforcement and sanctions from the agent-centric perspective present limitations regarding the representation of sanctions and the comprehensiveness of their norm enforcement process. To address these drawbacks, we propose the NPL(s), an extension of the NPL normative programming language enriched with the representation of norms and sanctions as first-class abstractions. We also propose a BDI normative agent architecture embedding an engine for processing the NPL(s) language and a set of capabilities for approaching more comprehensively the sanctioning norm enforcement process. We apply our contributions in a case study for improving the robustness of agents' decision-making in a production automation system.
Subjects: Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [129]
标题:  Gradient-based Sampling for Class Imbalanced Semi-supervised Object  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15127
作者:  Jiaming Li,  Xiangru Lin,  Wei Zhang,  Xiao Tan,  Yingying Li,  Junyu Han,  Errui Ding,  Jingdong Wang,  Guanbin Li
备注:  Accepted by ICCV2023
Abstract:Current semi-supervised object detection (SSOD) algorithms typically assume class balanced datasets (PASCAL VOC etc.) or slightly class imbalanced datasets (MS-COCO, etc). This assumption can be easily violated since real world datasets can be extremely class imbalanced in nature, thus making the performance of semi-supervised object detectors far from satisfactory. Besides, the research for this problem in SSOD is severely under-explored. To bridge this research gap, we comprehensively study the class imbalance problem for SSOD under more challenging scenarios, thus forming the first experimental setting for class imbalanced SSOD (CI-SSOD). Moreover, we propose a simple yet effective gradient-based sampling framework that tackles the class imbalance problem from the perspective of two types of confirmation biases. To tackle confirmation bias towards majority classes, the gradient-based reweighting and gradient-based thresholding modules leverage the gradients from each class to fully balance the influence of the majority and minority classes. To tackle the confirmation bias from incorrect pseudo labels of minority classes, the class-rebalancing sampling module resamples unlabeled data following the guidance of the gradient-based reweighting module. Experiments on three proposed sub-tasks, namely MS-COCO, MS-COCO to Object365 and LVIS, suggest that our method outperforms current class imbalanced object detectors by clear margins, serving as a baseline for future research in CI-SSOD. Code will be available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [130]
标题:  EndoGSLAM: Real-Time Dense Reconstruction and Tracking in Endoscopic  Surgeries using Gaussian Splatting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15124
作者:  Kailing Wang,  Chen Yang,  Yuehao Wang,  Sikuang Li,  Yan Wang,  Qi Dou,  Xiaokang Yang,  Wei Shen
备注:  
Abstract:Precise camera tracking, high-fidelity 3D tissue reconstruction, and real-time online visualization are critical for intrabody medical imaging devices such as endoscopes and capsule robots. However, existing SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping) methods often struggle to achieve both complete high-quality surgical field reconstruction and efficient computation, restricting their intraoperative applications among endoscopic surgeries. In this paper, we introduce EndoGSLAM, an efficient SLAM approach for endoscopic surgeries, which integrates streamlined Gaussian representation and differentiable rasterization to facilitate over 100 fps rendering speed during online camera tracking and tissue reconstructing. Extensive experiments show that EndoGSLAM achieves a better trade-off between intraoperative availability and reconstruction quality than traditional or neural SLAM approaches, showing tremendous potential for endoscopic surgeries. The project page is at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [131]
标题:  Quantification using Permutation-Invariant Networks based on Histograms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15123
作者:  Olaya Pérez-Mon,  Alejandro Moreo,  Juan José del Coz,  Pablo González
备注:  
Abstract:Quantification, also known as class prevalence estimation, is the supervised learning task in which a model is trained to predict the prevalence of each class in a given bag of examples. This paper investigates the application of deep neural networks to tasks of quantification in scenarios where it is possible to apply a symmetric supervised approach that eliminates the need for classification as an intermediary step, directly addressing the quantification problem. Additionally, it discusses existing permutation-invariant layers designed for set processing and assesses their suitability for quantification. In light of our analysis, we propose HistNetQ, a novel neural architecture that relies on a permutation-invariant representation based on histograms that is specially suited for quantification problems. Our experiments carried out in the only quantification competition held to date, show that HistNetQ outperforms other deep neural architectures devised for set processing, as well as the state-of-the-art quantification methods. Furthermore, HistNetQ offers two significant advantages over traditional quantification methods: i) it does not require the labels of the training examples but only the prevalence values of a collection of training bags, making it applicable to new scenarios; and ii) it is able to optimize any custom quantification-oriented loss function.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [132]
标题:  A hybrid approach to semi-automated Rust verification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15122
作者:  Sacha-Élie Ayoun,  Xavier Denis,  Petar Maksimović,  Philippa Gardner
备注:  22 pages, 8 figures, preprint
Abstract:While recent years have been witness to a large body of work on efficient and automated verification of safe Rust code, enabled by the rich guarantees of the Rust type system, much less progress has been made on reasoning about unsafe code due to its unique complexities. We propose a hybrid approach to end-to-end Rust verification in which powerful automated verification of safe Rust is combined with targeted semi-automated verification of unsafe~Rust. To this end, we present Gillian-Rust, a proof-of-concept semi-automated verification tool that is able to reason about type safety and functional correctness of unsafe~code. Built on top of the Gillian parametric compositional verification platform, Gillian-Rust automates a rich separation logic for real-world Rust, embedding the lifetime logic of RustBelt and the parametric propheciees of RustHornBelt. Using the unique extensibility of Gillian, our novel encoding of these features is fine-tuned to maximise automation and exposes a user-friendly API, allowing for low-effort verification of unsafe code. We link Gillian-Rust with Creusot, a state-of-the-art verifier for safe Rust, by providing a systematic encoding of unsafe code specifications that Creusot may use but not verify, demonstrating the feasibility of our hybrid~approach.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [133]
标题:  SYNCS: Synthetic Data and Contrastive Self-Supervised Training for  Central Sulcus Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15121
作者:  Vladyslav Zalevskyi,  Kristoffer Hougaard Madsen
备注:  
Abstract:Bipolar disorder (BD) and schizophrenia (SZ) are severe mental disorders with profound societal impact. Identifying risk markers early is crucial for understanding disease progression and enabling preventive measures. The Danish High Risk and Resilience Study (VIA) focuses on understanding early disease processes, particularly in children with familial high risk (FHR). Understanding structural brain changes associated with these diseases during early stages is essential for effective interventions. The central sulcus (CS) is a prominent brain landmark related to brain regions involved in motor and sensory processing. Analyzing CS morphology can provide valuable insights into neurodevelopmental abnormalities in the FHR group. However, segmenting the central sulcus (CS) presents challenges due to its variability, especially in adolescents. This study introduces two novel approaches to improve CS segmentation: synthetic data generation to model CS variability and self-supervised pre-training with multi-task learning to adapt models to new cohorts. These methods aim to enhance segmentation performance across diverse populations, eliminating the need for extensive preprocessing.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [134]
标题:  STAR-RIS Assisted Downlink Active and Uplink Backscatter Communications  with NOMA
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15120
作者:  Ao Huang,  Xidong Mu,  Li Guo
备注:  
Abstract:A simultaneously transmitting and reflecting reconfigurable intelligent surface (STAR-RIS) assisted downlink (DL) active and uplink (UL) backscatter communication (BackCom) framework is proposed. More particularly, a full-duplex (FD) base station (BS) communicates with the DL users via the STAR-RIS's transmission link, while exciting and receiving the information from the UL BackCom devices with the aid of the STAR-RIS's reflection link. Non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) is exploited in both DL and UL communications for improving the spectrum efficiency. The system weighted sum rate maximization problem is formulated for jointly optimizing the FD BS active receive and transmit beamforming, the STAR- RIS passive beamforming, and the DL NOMA decoding orders, subject to the DL user's individual rate constraint. To tackle this challenging non-convex problem, we propose an alternating optimization (AO) based algorithm for the joint active and passive beamforming design with a given DL NOMA decoding order. To address the potential high computational complexity required for exhaustive searching all the NOMA decoding orders, an efficient NOMA user ordering scheme is further developed. Finally, numerical results demonstrate that: i) compared with the baseline schemes employing conventional RISs or space division multiple access, the proposed scheme achieves higher performance gains; and ii) higher UL rate gain is obtained at a cost of DL performance degradation, as a remedy, a more flexible performance tradeoff can be achieved by introducing the STAR-RIS.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [135]
标题:  An Open-World, Diverse, Cross-Spatial-Temporal Benchmark for Dynamic  Wild Person Re-Identification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15119
作者:  Lei Zhang,  Xiaowei Fu,  Fuxiang Huang,  Yi Yang,  Xinbo Gao
备注:  Accepted by IJCV in 2024
Abstract:Person re-identification (ReID) has made great strides thanks to the data-driven deep learning techniques. However, the existing benchmark datasets lack diversity, and models trained on these data cannot generalize well to dynamic wild scenarios. To meet the goal of improving the explicit generalization of ReID models, we develop a new Open-World, Diverse, Cross-Spatial-Temporal dataset named OWD with several distinct features. 1) Diverse collection scenes: multiple independent open-world and highly dynamic collecting scenes, including streets, intersections, shopping malls, etc. 2) Diverse lighting variations: long time spans from daytime to nighttime with abundant illumination changes. 3) Diverse person status: multiple camera networks in all seasons with normal/adverse weather conditions and diverse pedestrian appearances (e.g., clothes, personal belongings, poses, etc.). 4) Protected privacy: invisible faces for privacy critical applications. To improve the implicit generalization of ReID, we further propose a Latent Domain Expansion (LDE) method to develop the potential of source data, which decouples discriminative identity-relevant and trustworthy domain-relevant features and implicitly enforces domain-randomized identity feature space expansion with richer domain diversity to facilitate domain invariant representations. Our comprehensive evaluations with most benchmark datasets in the community are crucial for progress, although this work is far from the grand goal toward open-world and dynamic wild applications.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [136]
标题:  Collision Avoidance Safety Filter for an Autonomous E-Scooter using  Ultrasonic Sensors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15116
作者:  Robin Strässer,  Marc Seidel,  Felix Brändle,  David Meister,  Raffaele Soloperto,  David Hambach Ferrer,  Frank Allgöwer
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a collision avoidance safety filter for autonomous electric scooters to enable safe operation of such vehicles in pedestrian areas. In particular, we employ multiple low-cost ultrasonic sensors to detect a wide range of possible obstacles in front of the e-scooter. Based on possibly faulty distance measurements, we design a filter to mitigate measurement noise and missing values as well as a gain-scheduled controller to limit the velocity commanded to the e-scooter when required due to imminent collisions. The proposed controller structure is able to prevent collisions with unknown obstacles by deploying a reduced safe velocity ensuring a sufficiently large safety distance. The collision avoidance approach is designed such that it may be easily deployed in similar applications of general micromobility vehicles. The effectiveness of our proposed safety filter is demonstrated in real-world experiments.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [137]
标题:  Language Models in Dialogue: Conversational Maxims for Human-AI  Interactions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15115
作者:  Erik Miehling,  Manish Nagireddy,  Prasanna Sattigeri,  Elizabeth M. Daly,  David Piorkowski,  John T. Richards
备注:  
Abstract:Modern language models, while sophisticated, exhibit some inherent shortcomings, particularly in conversational settings. We claim that many of the observed shortcomings can be attributed to violation of one or more conversational principles. By drawing upon extensive research from both the social science and AI communities, we propose a set of maxims -- quantity, quality, relevance, manner, benevolence, and transparency -- for describing effective human-AI conversation. We first justify the applicability of the first four maxims (from Grice) in the context of human-AI interactions. We then argue that two new maxims, benevolence (concerning the generation of, and engagement with, harmful content) and transparency (concerning recognition of one's knowledge boundaries, operational constraints, and intents), are necessary for addressing behavior unique to modern human-AI interactions. The proposed maxims offer prescriptive guidance on how to assess conversational quality between humans and LLM-driven conversational agents, informing both their evaluation and improved design.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [138]
标题:  Solving a Real-World Package Delivery Routing Problem Using Quantum  Annealers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15114
作者:  Eneko Osaba,  Esther Villar-Rodriguez,  Antón Asla
备注:  15 pages, 11 figures and 4 tables. Paper submitted for review in Scientific Reports
Abstract:Research focused on the conjunction between quantum computing and routing problems has been very prolific in recent years. Most of the works revolve around classical problems such as the Traveling Salesman Problem or the Vehicle Routing Problem. Even though working on these problems is valuable, it is also undeniable that their academic-oriented nature falls short of real-world requirements. The main objective of this research is to present a solving method for realistic instances, avoiding problem relaxations or technical shortcuts. Instead, a quantum-classical hybrid solver has been developed, coined Q4RPD, that considers a set of real constraints such as a heterogeneous fleet of vehicles, priority deliveries, and capacities characterized by two values: weight and dimensions of the packages. Q4RPD resorts to the Leap Constrained Quadratic Model Hybrid Solver of D-Wave. To demonstrate the application of Q4RPD, an experimentation composed of six different instances has been conducted, aiming to serve as illustrative examples.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [139]
标题:  Set-membership target search and tracking within an unknown cluttered  area using cooperating UAVs equipped with vision systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15113
作者:  Maxime Zagar,  Luc Meyer,  Michel Kieffer,  Hélène Piet-Lahanier
备注:  
Abstract:This paper addresses the problem of target search and tracking using a fleet of cooperating UAVs evolving in some unknown region of interest containing an a priori unknown number of moving ground targets. Each drone is equipped with an embedded Computer Vision System (CVS), providing an image with labeled pixels and a depth map of the observed part of its environment. Moreover, a box containing the corresponding pixels in the image frame is available when a UAV identifies a target. Hypotheses regarding information provided by the pixel classification, depth map construction, and target identification algorithms are proposed to allow its exploitation by set-membership approaches. A set-membership target location estimator is developed using the information provided by the CVS. Each UAV evaluates sets guaranteed to contain the location of the identified targets and a set possibly containing the locations of targets still to be identified. Then, each UAV uses these sets to search and track targets cooperatively.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [140]
标题:  Text clustering with LLM embeddings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15112
作者:  Alina Petukhova,  Joao P. Matos-Carvalho,  Nuno Fachada
备注:  
Abstract:Text clustering is an important approach for organising the growing amount of digital content, helping to structure and find hidden patterns in uncategorised data. In this research, we investigated how different textual embeddings - particularly those used in large language models (LLMs) - and clustering algorithms affect how text datasets are clustered. A series of experiments were conducted to assess how embeddings influence clustering results, the role played by dimensionality reduction through summarisation, and embedding size adjustment. Results reveal that LLM embeddings excel at capturing the nuances of structured language, while BERT leads the lightweight options in performance. In addition, we find that increasing embedding dimensionality and summarisation techniques do not uniformly improve clustering efficiency, suggesting that these strategies require careful analysis to use in real-life models. These results highlight a complex balance between the need for nuanced text representation and computational feasibility in text clustering applications. This study extends traditional text clustering frameworks by incorporating embeddings from LLMs, thereby paving the way for improved methodologies and opening new avenues for future research in various types of textual analysis.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [141]
标题:  Active Learning for Regression based on Wasserstein distance and  GroupSort Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15108
作者:  Benjamin Bobbia,  Matthias Picard
备注:  
Abstract:This paper addresses a new active learning strategy for regression problems. The presented Wasserstein active regression model is based on the principles of distribution-matching to measure the representativeness of the labeled dataset. The Wasserstein distance is computed using GroupSort Neural Networks. The use of such networks provides theoretical foundations giving a way to quantify errors with explicit bounds for their size and depth. This solution is combined with another uncertainty-based approach that is more outlier-tolerant to complete the query strategy. Finally, this method is compared with other classical and recent solutions. The study empirically shows the pertinence of such a representativity-uncertainty approach, which provides good estimation all along the query procedure. Moreover, the Wasserstein active regression often achieves more precise estimations and tends to improve accuracy faster than other models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [142]
标题:  PseudoTouch: Efficiently Imaging the Surface Feel of Objects for Robotic  Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15107
作者:  Adrian Röfer,  Nick Heppert,  Abdallah Ayman,  Eugenio Chisari,  Abhinav Valada
备注:  8 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables, submitted to IROS2024
Abstract:Humans seemingly incorporate potential touch signals in their perception. Our goal is to equip robots with a similar capability, which we term \ourmodel. \ourmodel aims to predict the expected touch signal based on a visual patch representing the touched area. We frame this problem as the task of learning a low-dimensional visual-tactile embedding, wherein we encode a depth patch from which we decode the tactile signal. To accomplish this task, we employ ReSkin, an inexpensive and replaceable magnetic-based tactile sensor. Using ReSkin, we collect and train PseudoTouch on a dataset comprising aligned tactile and visual data pairs obtained through random touching of eight basic geometric shapes. We demonstrate the efficacy of PseudoTouch through its application to two downstream tasks: object recognition and grasp stability prediction. In the object recognition task, we evaluate the learned embedding's performance on a set of five basic geometric shapes and five household objects. Using PseudoTouch, we achieve an object recognition accuracy 84% after just ten touches, surpassing a proprioception baseline. For the grasp stability task, we use ACRONYM labels to train and evaluate a grasp success predictor using PseudoTouch's predictions derived from virtual depth information. Our approach yields an impressive 32% absolute improvement in accuracy compared to the baseline relying on partial point cloud data. We make the data, code, and trained models publicly available at this http URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [143]
标题:  LLM-Driven Agents for Influencer Selection in Digital Advertising  Campaigns
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15105
作者:  Xiaoqing Zhang,  Xiuying Chen,  Yuhan Liu,  Jianzhou Wang,  Zhenxing Hu,  Rui Yan
备注:  
Abstract:In the digital world, influencers are pivotal as opinion leaders, shaping the views and choices of their influencees. Modern advertising often follows this trend, where marketers choose appropriate influencers for product endorsements, based on thorough market analysis. Previous studies on influencer selection have typically relied on numerical representations of individual opinions and interactions, a method that simplifies the intricacies of social dynamics. With the development of large language models (LLMs), we now have the opportunity to capture the nuanced exchanges of information within social networks. Hence, in this work, we first introduce an Influencer Dynamics Simulator (IDS), helping promoters identify and select the right influencers to market their products, based on LLM simulation. Concretely, we first propose an influencer-influencee engagement-based pre-selection module to screen potential influencer candidates. Subsequently, a simulation is constructed for these candidates and their influencees. Each user is represented as an LLM-based agent, drawing from their interaction history to deduce their profile and interests. The influencee agents will predict their behavior in response to influencer advertising. Finally, we develop a ranking metric designed to pinpoint influencers who are most likely to drive product purchases based on feedback from their influencees. To evaluate our framework, we collect a real-world advertising network dataset, including social relations, post and comment content, and user behaviors. Our dataset covers six products in diverse categories with their promoter influencers. Experiments show that IDS accurately identifies influencers from hundreds of candidates and provides valuable insights through detailed comments and specific attitudes.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [144]
标题:  Learning from Visual Demonstrations through Differentiable Nonlinear MPC  for Personalized Autonomous Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15102
作者:  Flavia Sofia Acerbo,  Jan Swevers,  Tinne Tuytelaars,  Tong Duy Son
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible. Accompanying video available at: this https URL
Abstract:Human-like autonomous driving controllers have the potential to enhance passenger perception of autonomous vehicles. This paper proposes DriViDOC: a model for Driving from Vision through Differentiable Optimal Control, and its application to learn personalized autonomous driving controllers from human demonstrations. DriViDOC combines the automatic inference of relevant features from camera frames with the properties of nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC), such as constraint satisfaction. Our approach leverages the differentiability of parametric NMPC, allowing for end-to-end learning of the driving model from images to control. The model is trained on an offline dataset comprising various driving styles collected on a motion-base driving simulator. During online testing, the model demonstrates successful imitation of different driving styles, and the interpreted NMPC parameters provide insights into the achievement of specific driving behaviors. Our experimental results show that DriViDOC outperforms other methods involving NMPC and neural networks, exhibiting an average improvement of 20% in imitation scores.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [145]
标题:  Subequivariant Reinforcement Learning Framework for Coordinated Motion  Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15100
作者:  Haoyu Wang,  Xiaoyu Tan,  Xihe Qiu,  Chao Qu
备注:  7 pages, 7 figures, 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
Abstract:Effective coordination is crucial for motion control with reinforcement learning, especially as the complexity of agents and their motions increases. However, many existing methods struggle to account for the intricate dependencies between joints. We introduce CoordiGraph, a novel architecture that leverages subequivariant principles from physics to enhance coordination of motion control with reinforcement learning. This method embeds the principles of equivariance as inherent patterns in the learning process under gravity influence, which aids in modeling the nuanced relationships between joints vital for motion control. Through extensive experimentation with sophisticated agents in diverse environments, we highlight the merits of our approach. Compared to current leading methods, CoordiGraph notably enhances generalization and sample efficiency.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [146]
标题:  UniTraj: A Unified Framework for Scalable Vehicle Trajectory Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15098
作者:  Lan Feng,  Mohammadhossein Bahari,  Kaouther Messaoud Ben Amor,  Éloi Zablocki,  Matthieu Cord,  Alexandre Alahi
备注:  
Abstract:Vehicle trajectory prediction has increasingly relied on data-driven solutions, but their ability to scale to different data domains and the impact of larger dataset sizes on their generalization remain under-explored. While these questions can be studied by employing multiple datasets, it is challenging due to several discrepancies, \textit{e.g.,} in data formats, map resolution, and semantic annotation types. To address these challenges, we introduce UniTraj, a comprehensive framework that unifies various datasets, models, and evaluation criteria, presenting new opportunities for the vehicle trajectory prediction field. In particular, using UniTraj, we conduct extensive experiments and find that model performance significantly drops when transferred to other datasets. However, enlarging data size and diversity can substantially improve performance, leading to a new state-of-the-art result for the nuScenes dataset. We provide insights into dataset characteristics to explain these findings. The code can be found here: \hyperlink{this https URL}{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [147]
标题:  Argument-Aware Approach To Event Linking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15097
作者:  I-Hung Hsu,  Zihan Xue,  Nilay Pochh,  Sahil Bansal,  Premkumar Natarajan,  Jayanth Srinivasa,  Nanyun Peng
备注:  Work In Progress
Abstract:Event linking connects event mentions in text with relevant nodes in a knowledge base (KB). Prior research in event linking has mainly borrowed methods from entity linking, overlooking the distinct features of events. Compared to the extensively explored entity linking task, events have more complex structures and can be more effectively distinguished by examining their associated arguments. Moreover, the information-rich nature of events leads to the scarcity of event KBs. This emphasizes the need for event linking models to identify and classify event mentions not in the KB as ``out-of-KB,'' an area that has received limited attention. In this work, we tackle these challenges by introducing an argument-aware approach. First, we improve event linking models by augmenting input text with tagged event argument information, facilitating the recognition of key information about event mentions. Subsequently, to help the model handle ``out-of-KB'' scenarios, we synthesize out-of-KB training examples from in-KB instances through controlled manipulation of event arguments. Our experiment across two test datasets showed significant enhancements in both in-KB and out-of-KB scenarios, with a notable 22% improvement in out-of-KB evaluations.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [148]
标题:  Improved Long Short-Term Memory-based Wastewater Treatment Simulators  for Deep Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15091
作者:  Esmaeel Mohammadi,  Daniel Ortiz-Arroyo,  Mikkel Stokholm-Bjerregaard,  Aviaja Anna Hansen,  Petar Durdevic
备注:  
Abstract:Even though Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) showed outstanding results in the fields of Robotics and Games, it is still challenging to implement it in the optimization of industrial processes like wastewater treatment. One of the challenges is the lack of a simulation environment that will represent the actual plant as accurately as possible to train DRL policies. Stochasticity and non-linearity of wastewater treatment data lead to unstable and incorrect predictions of models over long time horizons. One possible reason for the models' incorrect simulation behavior can be related to the issue of compounding error, which is the accumulation of errors throughout the simulation. The compounding error occurs because the model utilizes its predictions as inputs at each time step. The error between the actual data and the prediction accumulates as the simulation continues. We implemented two methods to improve the trained models for wastewater treatment data, which resulted in more accurate simulators: 1- Using the model's prediction data as input in the training step as a tool of correction, and 2- Change in the loss function to consider the long-term predicted shape (dynamics). The experimental results showed that implementing these methods can improve the behavior of simulators in terms of Dynamic Time Warping throughout a year up to 98% compared to the base model. These improvements demonstrate significant promise in creating simulators for biological processes that do not need pre-existing knowledge of the process but instead depend exclusively on time series data obtained from the system.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [149]
标题:  IFSENet : Harnessing Sparse Iterations for Interactive Few-shot  Segmentation Excellence
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15089
作者:  Shreyas Chandgothia,  Ardhendu Sekhar,  Amit Sethi
备注:  
Abstract:Training a computer vision system to segment a novel class typically requires collecting and painstakingly annotating lots of images with objects from that class. Few-shot segmentation techniques reduce the required number of images to learn to segment a new class, but careful annotations of object boundaries are still required. On the other hand, interactive segmentation techniques only focus on incrementally improving the segmentation of one object at a time (typically, using clicks given by an expert) in a class-agnostic manner. We combine the two concepts to drastically reduce the effort required to train segmentation models for novel classes. Instead of trivially feeding interactive segmentation masks as ground truth to a few-shot segmentation model, we propose IFSENet, which can accept sparse supervision on a single or few support images in the form of clicks to generate masks on support (training, at least clicked upon once) as well as query (test, never clicked upon) images. To trade-off effort for accuracy flexibly, the number of images and clicks can be incrementally added to the support set to further improve the segmentation of support as well as query images. The proposed model approaches the accuracy of previous state-of-the-art few-shot segmentation models with considerably lower annotation effort (clicks instead of maps), when tested on Pascal and SBD datasets on query images. It also works well as an interactive segmentation method on support images.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [150]
标题:  CHisIEC: An Information Extraction Corpus for Ancient Chinese History
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15088
作者:  Xuemei Tang,  Zekun Deng,  Qi Su,  Hao Yang,  Jun Wang
备注:  11 pages, 6 tables, 3 figures
Abstract:Natural Language Processing (NLP) plays a pivotal role in the realm of Digital Humanities (DH) and serves as the cornerstone for advancing the structural analysis of historical and cultural heritage texts. This is particularly true for the domains of named entity recognition (NER) and relation extraction (RE). In our commitment to expediting ancient history and culture, we present the ``Chinese Historical Information Extraction Corpus''(CHisIEC). CHisIEC is a meticulously curated dataset designed to develop and evaluate NER and RE tasks, offering a resource to facilitate research in the field. Spanning a remarkable historical timeline encompassing data from 13 dynasties spanning over 1830 years, CHisIEC epitomizes the extensive temporal range and text heterogeneity inherent in Chinese historical documents. The dataset encompasses four distinct entity types and twelve relation types, resulting in a meticulously labeled dataset comprising 14,194 entities and 8,609 relations. To establish the robustness and versatility of our dataset, we have undertaken comprehensive experimentation involving models of various sizes and paradigms. Additionally, we have evaluated the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in the context of tasks related to ancient Chinese history. The dataset and code are available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [151]
标题:  SIMAP: A simplicial-map layer for neural networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15083
作者:  Rocio Gonzalez-Diaz,  Miguel A. Gutiérrez-Naranjo,  Eduardo Paluzo-Hidalgo
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present SIMAP, a novel layer integrated into deep learning models, aimed at enhancing the interpretability of the output. The SIMAP layer is an enhanced version of Simplicial-Map Neural Networks (SMNNs), an explainable neural network based on support sets and simplicial maps (functions used in topology to transform shapes while preserving their structural connectivity). The novelty of the methodology proposed in this paper is two-fold: Firstly, SIMAP layers work in combination with other deep learning architectures as an interpretable layer substituting classic dense final layers. Secondly, unlike SMNNs, the support set is based on a fixed maximal simplex, the barycentric subdivision being efficiently computed with a matrix-based multiplication algorithm.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Algebraic Topology (math.AT)

**编号**: [152]
标题:  Cell Variational Information Bottleneck Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15082
作者:  Zhonghua Zhai,  Chen Ju,  Jinsong Lan,  Shuai Xiao
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we propose Cell Variational Information Bottleneck Network (cellVIB), a convolutional neural network using information bottleneck mechanism, which can be combined with the latest feedforward network architecture in an end-to-end training method. Our Cell Variational Information Bottleneck Network is constructed by stacking VIB cells, which generate feature maps with uncertainty. As layers going deeper, the regularization effect will gradually increase, instead of directly adding excessive regular constraints to the output layer of the model as in Deep VIB. Under each VIB cell, the feedforward process learns an independent mean term and an standard deviation term, and predicts the Gaussian distribution based on them. The feedback process is based on reparameterization trick for effective training. This work performs an extensive analysis on MNIST dataset to verify the effectiveness of each VIB cells, and provides an insightful analysis on how the VIB cells affect mutual information. Experiments conducted on CIFAR-10 also prove that our cellVIB is robust against noisy labels during training and against corrupted images during testing. Then, we validate our method on PACS dataset, whose results show that the VIB cells can significantly improve the generalization performance of the basic model. Finally, in a more complex representation learning task, face recognition, our network structure has also achieved very competitive results.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [153]
标题:  Evaluating the Influence of Multi-Factor Authentication and Recovery  Settings on the Security and Accessibility of User Accounts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15080
作者:  Andre Büttner,  Nils Gruschka
备注:  10 pages, published and presented at ICISSP 2024
Abstract:Nowadays, most online services offer different authentication methods that users can set up for multi-factor authentication but also as a recovery method. This configuration must be done thoroughly to prevent an adversary's access while ensuring the legitimate user does not lose access to their account. This is particularly important for fundamental everyday services, where either failure would have severe consequences. Nevertheless, little research has been done on the authentication of actual users regarding security and the risk of being locked out of their accounts. To foster research in this direction, this paper presents a study on the account settings of Google and Apple users. Considering the multi-factor authentication configuration and recovery options, we analyzed the account security and lock-out risks. Our results provide insights into the usage of multi-factor authentication in practice, show significant security differences between Google and Apple accounts, and reveal that many users would miss access to their accounts when losing a single authentication device.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [154]
标题:  Automated Feature Selection for Inverse Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15079
作者:  Daulet Baimukashev,  Gokhan Alcan,  Ville Kyrki
备注:  7 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) is an imitation learning approach to learning reward functions from expert demonstrations. Its use avoids the difficult and tedious procedure of manual reward specification while retaining the generalization power of reinforcement learning. In IRL, the reward is usually represented as a linear combination of features. In continuous state spaces, the state variables alone are not sufficiently rich to be used as features, but which features are good is not known in general. To address this issue, we propose a method that employs polynomial basis functions to form a candidate set of features, which are shown to allow the matching of statistical moments of state distributions. Feature selection is then performed for the candidates by leveraging the correlation between trajectory probabilities and feature expectations. We demonstrate the approach's effectiveness by recovering reward functions that capture expert policies across non-linear control tasks of increasing complexity. Code, data, and videos are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [155]
标题:  Real-time Threat Detection Strategies for Resource-constrained Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15078
作者:  Mounia Hamidouche,  Biniam Fisseha Demissie,  Bilel Cherif
备注:  
Abstract:As more devices connect to the internet, it becomes crucial to address their limitations and basic security needs. While much research focuses on utilizing ML and DL to tackle security challenges, there is often a tendency to overlook the practicality and feasibility of implementing these methods in real-time settings. This oversight stems from the constrained processing power and memory of certain devices (IoT devices), as well as concerns about the generalizability of these approaches. Focusing on the detection of DNS-tunneling attacks in a router as a case study, we present an end-to-end process designed to effectively address these challenges. The process spans from developing a lightweight DNS-tunneling detection model to integrating it into a resource-constrained device for real-time detection. Through our experiments, we demonstrate that utilizing stateless features for training the ML model, along with features chosen to be independent of the network configuration, leads to highly accurate results. The deployment of this carefully crafted model, optimized for embedded devices across diverse environments, resulted in high DNS-tunneling attack detection with minimal latency. With this work, we aim to encourage solutions that strike a balance between theoretical advancements and the practical applicability of ML approaches in the ever-evolving landscape of device security.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [156]
标题:  GTAGCN: Generalized Topology Adaptive Graph Convolutional Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15077
作者:  Sukhdeep Singh,  Anuj Sharma,  Vinod Kumar Chauhan
备注:  2 figures, 3 tables and 26 pages
Abstract:Graph Neural Networks (GNN) have emerged as a popular and standard approach for learning from graph-structured data. The literature on GNN highlights the potential of this evolving research area and its widespread adoption in real-life applications. However, most of the approaches are either new in concept or derived from specific techniques. Therefore, the potential of more than one approach in hybrid form has not been studied extensively, which can be well utilized for sequenced data or static data together. We derive a hybrid approach based on two established techniques as generalized aggregation networks and topology adaptive graph convolution networks that solve our purpose to apply on both types of sequenced and static nature of data, effectively. The proposed method applies to both node and graph classification. Our empirical analysis reveals that the results are at par with literature results and better for handwritten strokes as sequenced data, where graph structures have not been explored.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [157]
标题:  Bilateral Unsymmetrical Graph Contrastive Learning for Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15075
作者:  Jiaheng Yu,  Jing Li,  Yue He,  Kai Zhu,  Shuyi Zhang,  Wen Hu
备注:  
Abstract:Recent methods utilize graph contrastive Learning within graph-structured user-item interaction data for collaborative filtering and have demonstrated their efficacy in recommendation tasks. However, they ignore that the difference relation density of nodes between the user- and item-side causes the adaptability of graphs on bilateral nodes to be different after multi-hop graph interaction calculation, which limits existing models to achieve ideal results. To solve this issue, we propose a novel framework for recommendation tasks called Bilateral Unsymmetrical Graph Contrastive Learning (BusGCL) that consider the bilateral unsymmetry on user-item node relation density for sliced user and item graph reasoning better with bilateral slicing contrastive training. Especially, taking into account the aggregation ability of hypergraph-based graph convolutional network (GCN) in digging implicit similarities is more suitable for user nodes, embeddings generated from three different modules: hypergraph-based GCN, GCN and perturbed GCN, are sliced into two subviews by the user- and item-side respectively, and selectively combined into subview pairs bilaterally based on the characteristics of inter-node relation structure. Furthermore, to align the distribution of user and item embeddings after aggregation, a dispersing loss is leveraged to adjust the mutual distance between all embeddings for maintaining learning ability. Comprehensive experiments on two public datasets have proved the superiority of BusGCL in comparison to various recommendation methods. Other models can simply utilize our bilateral slicing contrastive learning to enhance recommending performance without incurring extra expenses.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [158]
标题:  On the Inclusion of Charge and Spin States in Cartesian Tensor Neural  Network Potentials
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15073
作者:  Guillem Simeon,  Antonio Mirarchi,  Raul P. Pelaez,  Raimondas Galvelis,  Gianni De Fabritiis
备注:  
Abstract:In this letter, we present an extension to TensorNet, a state-of-the-art equivariant Cartesian tensor neural network potential, allowing it to handle charged molecules and spin states without architectural changes or increased costs. By incorporating these attributes, we address input degeneracy issues, enhancing the model's predictive accuracy across diverse chemical systems. This advancement significantly broadens TensorNet's applicability, maintaining its efficiency and accuracy.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)

**编号**: [159]
标题:  Direct and Indirect Hydrogen Storage: Dynamics and Interactions in the  Transition to a Renewable Energy Based System for Europe
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15072
作者:  Zhiyuan Xie,  Gorm Bruun Andresen
备注:  
Abstract:To move towards a low-carbon society by 2050, understanding the intricate dynamics of energy systems is critical. Our study examines these interactions through the lens of hydrogen storage, dividing it into 'direct' and 'indirect' hydrogen storage. Direct hydrogen storage involves electrolysis-produced hydrogen being stored before use, while indirect storage first transforms hydrogen into gas via the Sabatier process for later energy distribution. Firstly, we utilize the PyPSA-Eur-Sec-30-path model to capture the interactions within the energy system. The model is an hour-level, one node per country system that encompasses a range of energy transformation technologies, outlining a pathway for Europe to reduce carbon emissions by 95 percent by 2050 compared to 1990, with updates every 5 years. Subsequently, we employ both quantitative and qualitative approaches to thoroughly analyze these complex relationships. Our research indicates that during the European green transition, cross-country flow of electricity will play an important role in Europe's rapid decarbonization stage before the large-scale introduction of energy storage. Under the paper cost assumptions, fuel cells are not considered a viable option. This research further identifies the significant impact of natural resource variability on the local energy mix, highlighting indirect hydrogen storage as a common solution due to the better economic performance and actively fluctuation pattern. Specifically, indirect hydrogen storage will contribute at least 60 percent of hydrogen storage benefits, reaching 100 percent in Italy. Moreover, its fluctuation pattern will change with the local energy structure, which is a distinct difference with the unchanged pattern of direct hydrogen storage and battery storage.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [160]
标题:  Allspark: Workload Orchestration for Visual Transformers on Processing  In-Memory Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15069
作者:  Mengke Ge,  Junpeng Wang,  Binhan Chen,  Yingjian Zhong,  Haitao Du,  Song Chen,  Yi Kang
备注:  The article is currently under review by IEEE Transactions on Computers, and has been submitted to HPCA'2024 and ISCA'2024
Abstract:The advent of Transformers has revolutionized computer vision, offering a powerful alternative to convolutional neural networks (CNNs), especially with the local attention mechanism that excels at capturing local structures within the input and achieve state-of-the-art performance. Processing in-memory (PIM) architecture offers extensive parallelism, low data movement costs, and scalable memory bandwidth, making it a promising solution to accelerate Transformer with memory-intensive operations. However, the crucial challenge lies in efficiently deploying the entire model onto a resource-limited PIM system while parallelizing each transformer block with potentially many computational branches based on local attention mechanisms. We present Allspark, which focuses on workload orchestration for visual Transformers on PIM systems, aiming at minimizing inference latency. Firstly, to fully utilize the massive parallelism of PIM, Allspark empolys a finer-grained partitioning scheme for computational branches, and format a systematic layout and interleaved dataflow with maximized data locality and reduced data movement. Secondly, Allspark formulates the scheduling of the complete model on a resource-limited distributed PIM system as an integer linear programming (ILP) problem. Thirdly, as local-global data interactions exhibit complex yet regular dependencies, Allspark provides a greedy-based mapping method to allocate computational branches onto the PIM system and minimize NoC communication costs. Extensive experiments on 3D-stacked DRAM-based PIM systems show that Allspark brings 1.2x-24.0x inference speedup for various visual Transformers over baselines, and that Allspark-enriched PIM system yields average speedups of 2.3x and energy savings of 20x-55x over Nvidia V100 GPU.
Subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)

**编号**: [161]
标题:  A Twin Delayed Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient Algorithm for  Autonomous Ground Vehicle Navigation via Digital Twin Perception Awareness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15067
作者:  Kabirat Olayemi,  Mien Van,  Sean McLoone,  Yuzhu Sun,  Jack Close,  Nguyen Minh Nhat,  Stephen McIlvanna
备注:  8 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:Autonomous ground vehicle (UGV) navigation has the potential to revolutionize the transportation system by increasing accessibility to disabled people, ensure safety and convenience of use. However, UGV requires extensive and efficient testing and evaluation to ensure its acceptance for public use. This testing are mostly done in a simulator which result to sim2real transfer gap. In this paper, we propose a digital twin perception awareness approach for the control of robot navigation without prior creation of the virtual environment (VT) environment state. To achieve this, we develop a twin delayed deep deterministic policy gradient (TD3) algorithm that ensures collision avoidance and goal-based path planning. We demonstrate the performance of our approach on different environment dynamics. We show that our approach is capable of efficiently avoiding collision with obstacles and navigating to its desired destination, while at the same time safely avoids obstacles using the information received from the LIDAR sensor mounted on the robot. Our approach bridges the gap between sim-to-real transfer and contributes to the adoption of UGVs in real world. We validate our approach in simulation and a real-world application in an office space.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [162]
标题:  Testing for Fault Diversity in Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15065
作者:  Quentin Mazouni,  Helge Spieker,  Arnaud Gotlieb,  Mathieu Acher
备注:  11 pages, 4 figures, 1 algorithm, AST @ ICSE 2024
Abstract:Reinforcement Learning is the premier technique to approach sequential decision problems, including complex tasks such as driving cars and landing spacecraft. Among the software validation and verification practices, testing for functional fault detection is a convenient way to build trustworthiness in the learned decision model. While recent works seek to maximise the number of detected faults, none consider fault characterisation during the search for more diversity. We argue that policy testing should not find as many failures as possible (e.g., inputs that trigger similar car crashes) but rather aim at revealing as informative and diverse faults as possible in the model. In this paper, we explore the use of quality diversity optimisation to solve the problem of fault diversity in policy testing. Quality diversity (QD) optimisation is a type of evolutionary algorithm to solve hard combinatorial optimisation problems where high-quality diverse solutions are sought. We define and address the underlying challenges of adapting QD optimisation to the test of action policies. Furthermore, we compare classical QD optimisers to state-of-the-art frameworks dedicated to policy testing, both in terms of search efficiency and fault diversity. We show that QD optimisation, while being conceptually simple and generally applicable, finds effectively more diverse faults in the decision model, and conclude that QD-based policy testing is a promising approach.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [163]
标题:  Recent Trends in 3D Reconstruction of General Non-Rigid Scenes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15064
作者:  Raza Yunus,  Jan Eric Lenssen,  Michael Niemeyer,  Yiyi Liao,  Christian Rupprecht,  Christian Theobalt,  Gerard Pons-Moll,  Jia-Bin Huang,  Vladislav Golyanik,  Eddy Ilg
备注:  42 pages, 18 figures, 5 tables; State-of-the-Art Report at EUROGRAPHICS 2024
Abstract:Reconstructing models of the real world, including 3D geometry, appearance, and motion of real scenes, is essential for computer graphics and computer vision. It enables the synthesizing of photorealistic novel views, useful for the movie industry and AR/VR applications. It also facilitates the content creation necessary in computer games and AR/VR by avoiding laborious manual design processes. Further, such models are fundamental for intelligent computing systems that need to interpret real-world scenes and actions to act and interact safely with the human world. Notably, the world surrounding us is dynamic, and reconstructing models of dynamic, non-rigidly moving scenes is a severely underconstrained and challenging problem. This state-of-the-art report (STAR) offers the reader a comprehensive summary of state-of-the-art techniques with monocular and multi-view inputs such as data from RGB and RGB-D sensors, among others, conveying an understanding of different approaches, their potential applications, and promising further research directions. The report covers 3D reconstruction of general non-rigid scenes and further addresses the techniques for scene decomposition, editing and controlling, and generalizable and generative modeling. More specifically, we first review the common and fundamental concepts necessary to understand and navigate the field and then discuss the state-of-the-art techniques by reviewing recent approaches that use traditional and machine-learning-based neural representations, including a discussion on the newly enabled applications. The STAR is concluded with a discussion of the remaining limitations and open challenges.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [164]
标题:  Towards a Comprehensive, Efficient and Promptable Anatomic Structure  Segmentation Model using 3D Whole-body CT Scans
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15063
作者:  Heng Guo,  Jianfeng Zhang,  Jiaxing Huang,  Tony C. W. Mok,  Dazhou Guo,  Ke Yan,  Le Lu,  Dakai Jin,  Minfeng Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Segment anything model (SAM) demonstrates strong generalization ability on natural image segmentation. However, its direct adaption in medical image segmentation tasks shows significant performance drops with inferior accuracy and unstable results. It may also requires an excessive number of prompt points to obtain a reasonable accuracy. For segmenting 3D radiological CT or MRI scans, a 2D SAM model has to separately handle hundreds of 2D slices. Although quite a few studies explore adapting SAM into medical image volumes, the efficiency of 2D adaption methods is unsatisfactory and 3D adaptation methods only capable of segmenting specific organs/tumors. In this work, we propose a comprehensive and scalable 3D SAM model for whole-body CT segmentation, named CT-SAM3D. Instead of adapting SAM, we propose a 3D promptable segmentation model using a (nearly) fully labeled CT dataset. To train CT-SAM3D effectively, ensuring the model's accurate responses to higher-dimensional spatial prompts is crucial, and 3D patch-wise training is required due to GPU memory constraints. For this purpose, we propose two key technical developments: 1) a progressively and spatially aligned prompt encoding method to effectively encode click prompts in local 3D space; and 2) a cross-patch prompt learning scheme to capture more 3D spatial context, which is beneficial for reducing the editing workloads when interactively prompting on large organs. CT-SAM3D is trained and validated using a curated dataset of 1204 CT scans containing 107 whole-body anatomies, reporting significantly better quantitative performance against all previous SAM-derived models by a large margin with much fewer click prompts. Our model can handle segmenting unseen organ as well. Code, data, and our 3D interactive segmentation tool with quasi-real-time responses will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [165]
标题:  MM-Diff: High-Fidelity Image Personalization via Multi-Modal Condition  Integration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15059
作者:  Zhichao Wei,  Qingkun Su,  Long Qin,  Weizhi Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advances in tuning-free personalized image generation based on diffusion models are impressive. However, to improve subject fidelity, existing methods either retrain the diffusion model or infuse it with dense visual embeddings, both of which suffer from poor generalization and efficiency. Also, these methods falter in multi-subject image generation due to the unconstrained cross-attention mechanism. In this paper, we propose MM-Diff, a unified and tuning-free image personalization framework capable of generating high-fidelity images of both single and multiple subjects in seconds. Specifically, to simultaneously enhance text consistency and subject fidelity, MM-Diff employs a vision encoder to transform the input image into CLS and patch embeddings. CLS embeddings are used on the one hand to augment the text embeddings, and on the other hand together with patch embeddings to derive a small number of detail-rich subject embeddings, both of which are efficiently integrated into the diffusion model through the well-designed multimodal cross-attention mechanism. Additionally, MM-Diff introduces cross-attention map constraints during the training phase, ensuring flexible multi-subject image sampling during inference without any predefined inputs (e.g., layout). Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance of MM-Diff over other leading methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [166]
标题:  Rethinking 6-Dof Grasp Detection: A Flexible Framework for High-Quality  Grasping
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15054
作者:  Wei Tang,  Siang Chen,  Pengwei Xie,  Dingchang Hu,  Wenming Yang,  Guijin Wang
备注:  8 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Robotic grasping is a primitive skill for complex tasks and is fundamental to intelligence. For general 6-Dof grasping, most previous methods directly extract scene-level semantic or geometric information, while few of them consider the suitability for various downstream applications, such as target-oriented grasping. Addressing this issue, we rethink 6-Dof grasp detection from a grasp-centric view and propose a versatile grasp framework capable of handling both scene-level and target-oriented grasping. Our framework, FlexLoG, is composed of a Flexible Guidance Module and a Local Grasp Model. Specifically, the Flexible Guidance Module is compatible with both global (e.g., grasp heatmap) and local (e.g., visual grounding) guidance, enabling the generation of high-quality grasps across various tasks. The Local Grasp Model focuses on object-agnostic regional points and predicts grasps locally and intently. Experiment results reveal that our framework achieves over 18% and 23% improvement on unseen splits of the GraspNet-1Billion Dataset. Furthermore, real-world robotic tests in three distinct settings yield a 95% success rate.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [167]
标题:  The Power of Bamboo: On the Post-Compromise Security for Searchable  Symmetric Encryption
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15052
作者:  Tianyang Chen,  Peng Xu,  Stjepan Picek,  Bo Luo,  Willy Susilo,  Hai Jin,  Kaitai Liang
备注:  This is a full version paper that includes the security proof. The paper with the same name has been published by NDSS 2023
Abstract:Dynamic searchable symmetric encryption (DSSE) enables users to delegate the keyword search over dynamically updated encrypted databases to an honest-but-curious server without losing keyword privacy. This paper studies a new and practical security risk to DSSE, namely, secret key compromise (e.g., a user's secret key is leaked or stolen), which threatens all the security guarantees offered by existing DSSE schemes. To address this open problem, we introduce the notion of searchable encryption with key-update (SEKU) that provides users with the option of non-interactive key updates. We further define the notion of post-compromise secure with respect to leakage functions to study whether DSSE schemes can still provide data security after the client's secret key is compromised. We demonstrate that post-compromise security is achievable with a proposed protocol called ``Bamboo". Interestingly, the leakage functions of Bamboo satisfy the requirements for both forward and backward security. We conduct a performance evaluation of Bamboo using a real-world dataset and compare its runtime efficiency with the existing forward-and-backward secure DSSE schemes. The result shows that Bamboo provides strong security with better or comparable performance.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [168]
标题:  Continual Vision-and-Language Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15049
作者:  Seongjun Jeong,  Gi-Cheon Kang,  Seongho Choi,  Joochan Kim,  Byoung-Tak Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) agents navigate to a destination using natural language instructions and the visual information they observe. Existing methods for training VLN agents presuppose fixed datasets, leading to a significant limitation: the introduction of new environments necessitates retraining with previously encountered environments to preserve their knowledge. This makes it difficult to train VLN agents that operate in the ever-changing real world. To address this limitation, we present the Continual Vision-and-Language Navigation (CVLN) paradigm, designed to evaluate agents trained through a continual learning process. For the training and evaluation of CVLN agents, we re-arrange existing VLN datasets to propose two datasets: CVLN-I, focused on navigation via initial-instruction interpretation, and CVLN-D, aimed at navigation through dialogue with other agents. Furthermore, we propose two novel rehearsal-based methods for CVLN, Perplexity Replay (PerpR) and Episodic Self-Replay (ESR). PerpR prioritizes replaying challenging episodes based on action perplexity, while ESR replays previously predicted action logits to preserve learned behaviors. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods on CVLN through extensive experiments.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [169]
标题:  Cartoon Hallucinations Detection: Pose-aware In Context Visual Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15048
作者:  Bumsoo Kim,  Wonseop Shin,  Kyuchul Lee,  Sanghyun Seo
备注:  11 pages, 12 figures, 1 table, Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Large-scale Text-to-Image (TTI) models have become a common approach for generating training data in various generative fields. However, visual hallucinations, which contain perceptually critical defects, remain a concern, especially in non-photorealistic styles like cartoon characters. We propose a novel visual hallucination detection system for cartoon character images generated by TTI models. Our approach leverages pose-aware in-context visual learning (PA-ICVL) with Vision-Language Models (VLMs), utilizing both RGB images and pose information. By incorporating pose guidance from a fine-tuned pose estimator, we enable VLMs to make more accurate decisions. Experimental results demonstrate significant improvements in identifying visual hallucinations compared to baseline methods relying solely on RGB images. This research advances TTI models by mitigating visual hallucinations, expanding their potential in non-photorealistic domains.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [170]
标题:  DP-Dueling: Learning from Preference Feedback without Compromising User  Privacy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15045
作者:  Aadirupa Saha,  Hilal Asi
备注:  
Abstract:We consider the well-studied dueling bandit problem, where a learner aims to identify near-optimal actions using pairwise comparisons, under the constraint of differential privacy. We consider a general class of utility-based preference matrices for large (potentially unbounded) decision spaces and give the first differentially private dueling bandit algorithm for active learning with user preferences. Our proposed algorithms are computationally efficient with near-optimal performance, both in terms of the private and non-private regret bound. More precisely, we show that when the decision space is of finite size $K$, our proposed algorithm yields order optimal $O\Big(\sum_{i = 2}^K\log\frac{KT}{\Delta_i} + \frac{K}{\epsilon}\Big)$ regret bound for pure $\epsilon$-DP, where $\Delta_i$ denotes the suboptimality gap of the $i$-th arm. We also present a matching lower bound analysis which proves the optimality of our algorithms. Finally, we extend our results to any general decision space in $d$-dimensions with potentially infinite arms and design an $\epsilon$-DP algorithm with regret $\tilde{O} \left( \frac{d^6}{\kappa \epsilon } + \frac{ d\sqrt{T }}{\kappa} \right)$, providing privacy for free when $T \gg d$.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [171]
标题:  Multimodal Fusion with Pre-Trained Model Features in Affective Behaviour  Analysis In-the-wild
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15044
作者:  Zhuofan Wen,  Fengyu Zhang,  Siyuan Zhang,  Haiyang Sun,  Mingyu Xu,  Licai Sun,  Zheng Lian,  Bin Liu,  Jianhua Tao
备注:  
Abstract:Multimodal fusion is a significant method for most multimodal tasks. With the recent surge in the number of large pre-trained models, combining both multimodal fusion methods and pre-trained model features can achieve outstanding performance in many multimodal tasks. In this paper, we present our approach, which leverages both advantages for addressing the task of Expression (Expr) Recognition and Valence-Arousal (VA) Estimation. We evaluate the Aff-Wild2 database using pre-trained models, then extract the final hidden layers of the models as features. Following preprocessing and interpolation or convolution to align the extracted features, different models are employed for modal fusion. Our code is available at GitHub - FulgenceWen/ABAW6th.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [172]
标题:  Stability of conforming space-time isogeometric methods for the wave  equation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15043
作者:  Matteo Ferrari,  Sara Fraschini
备注:  
Abstract:We consider a family of conforming space-time finite element discretizations for the wave equation based on splines of maximal regularity in time. Traditional techniques may require a CFL condition to guarantee stability. Recent works by O. Steinbach and M. Zank (2018), and S. Fraschini, G. Loli, A. Moiola, and G. Sangalli (2023), have introduced unconditionally stable schemes by adding non-consistent penalty terms to the underlying bilinear form. Stability and error analysis have been carried out for lowest order discrete spaces. While higher order methods have shown promising properties through numerical testing, their rigorous analysis was still missing. In this paper, we address this stability analysis by studying the properties of the condition number of a family of matrices associated with the time discretization. For each spline order, we derive explicit estimates of both the CFL condition required in the unstabilized case and the penalty term that minimises the consistency error in the stabilized case. Numerical tests confirm the sharpness of our results.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [173]
标题:  LLM2LLM: Boosting LLMs with Novel Iterative Data Enhancement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15042
作者:  Nicholas Lee,  Thanakul Wattanawong,  Sehoon Kim,  Karttikeya Mangalam,  Sheng Shen,  Gopala Anumanchipali,  Michael W. Mahoney,  Kurt Keutzer,  Amir Gholami
备注:  Our code is available at this https URL
Abstract:Pretrained large language models (LLMs) are currently state-of-the-art for solving the vast majority of natural language processing tasks. While many real-world applications still require fine-tuning to reach satisfactory levels of performance, many of them are in the low-data regime, making fine-tuning challenging. To address this, we propose LLM2LLM, a targeted and iterative data augmentation strategy that uses a teacher LLM to enhance a small seed dataset by augmenting additional data that can be used for fine-tuning on a specific task. LLM2LLM (1) fine-tunes a baseline student LLM on the initial seed data, (2) evaluates and extracts data points that the model gets wrong, and (3) uses a teacher LLM to generate synthetic data based on these incorrect data points, which are then added back into the training data. This approach amplifies the signal from incorrectly predicted data points by the LLM during training and reintegrates them into the dataset to focus on more challenging examples for the LLM. Our results show that LLM2LLM significantly enhances the performance of LLMs in the low-data regime, outperforming both traditional fine-tuning and other data augmentation baselines. LLM2LLM reduces the dependence on labor-intensive data curation and paves the way for more scalable and performant LLM solutions, allowing us to tackle data-constrained domains and tasks. We achieve improvements up to 24.2% on the GSM8K dataset, 32.6% on CaseHOLD, 32.0% on SNIPS, 52.6% on TREC and 39.8% on SST-2 over regular fine-tuning in the low-data regime using a LLaMA2-7B student model.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [174]
标题:  ESG Classification by Implicit Rule Learning via GPT-4
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15040
作者:  Hyo Jeong Yun,  Chanyoung Kim,  Moonjeong Hahm,  Kyuri Kim,  Guijin Son
备注:  Accepted as Shared Track Paper at 7th FinNLP Workshop @ LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors are widely adopted as higher investment return indicators. Accordingly, ongoing efforts are being made to automate ESG evaluation with language models to extract signals from massive web text easily. However, recent approaches suffer from a lack of training data, as rating agencies keep their evaluation metrics confidential. This paper investigates whether state-of-the-art language models like GPT-4 can be guided to align with unknown ESG evaluation criteria through strategies such as prompting, chain-of-thought reasoning, and dynamic in-context learning. We demonstrate the efficacy of these approaches by ranking 2nd in the Shared-Task ML-ESG-3 Impact Type track for Korean without updating the model on the provided training data. We also explore how adjusting prompts impacts the ability of language models to address financial tasks leveraging smaller models with openly available weights. We observe longer general pre-training to correlate with enhanced performance in financial downstream tasks. Our findings showcase the potential of language models to navigate complex, subjective evaluation guidelines despite lacking explicit training examples, revealing opportunities for training-free solutions for financial downstream tasks.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [175]
标题:  Implementation of Firm-Dispatchable Generation in South Africa
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15037
作者:  Stephen R. Clark,  Craig McGregor
备注:  
Abstract:South Africa is currently facing a critical situation in its power generation landscape, which is plagued by frequent power outages and the need to move from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources. This period emphasizes the importance of having firm-dispatchable power to balance out the intermittent nature of wind and solar energy sources. The paper proposes to repurpose old coal-fired power plants to generate firm-dispatchable energy in line with the principles of a Just Transition. Eskom's coal plants are approaching the end of their economic life, and their declining energy availability factor is becoming a challenge in meeting the country's energy needs. The study suggests that a comprehensive strategy that integrates wind, solar, and firm-dispatchable power can be cost-effective and reliable compared to the traditional coal-based approach or the nuclear alternative. The study emphasizes the necessity of a 25-year plan that would invest in flexible and modular dispatchable generation. It also highlights the strategic location of this generating capacity, including repurposing decommissioned coal plant sites. The proposed model integrates private investment, adheres to established best practices, and emphasizes adaptability to changing demand dynamics. The study provides a roadmap for enabling firm-dispatchable capacity for South Africa's energy transition, emphasizing economic prudence, environmental sustainability, and alignment with the principles of the Just Transition program.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [176]
标题:  Toward Tiny and High-quality Facial Makeup with Data Amplify Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15033
作者:  Qiaoqiao Jin,  Xuanhong Chen,  Meiguang Jin,  Ying Cheng,  Rui Shi,  Yucheng Zheng,  Yupeng Zhu,  Bingbing Ni
备注:  
Abstract:Contemporary makeup approaches primarily hinge on unpaired learning paradigms, yet they grapple with the challenges of inaccurate supervision (e.g., face misalignment) and sophisticated facial prompts (including face parsing, and landmark detection). These challenges prohibit low-cost deployment of facial makeup models, especially on mobile devices. To solve above problems, we propose a brand-new learning paradigm, termed "Data Amplify Learning (DAL)," alongside a compact makeup model named "TinyBeauty." The core idea of DAL lies in employing a Diffusion-based Data Amplifier (DDA) to "amplify" limited images for the model training, thereby enabling accurate pixel-to-pixel supervision with merely a handful of annotations. Two pivotal innovations in DDA facilitate the above training approach: (1) A Residual Diffusion Model (RDM) is designed to generate high-fidelity detail and circumvent the detail vanishing problem in the vanilla diffusion models; (2) A Fine-Grained Makeup Module (FGMM) is proposed to achieve precise makeup control and combination while retaining face identity. Coupled with DAL, TinyBeauty necessitates merely 80K parameters to achieve a state-of-the-art performance without intricate face prompts. Meanwhile, TinyBeauty achieves a remarkable inference speed of up to 460 fps on the iPhone 13. Extensive experiments show that DAL can produce highly competitive makeup models using only 5 image pairs.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [177]
标题:  An Integrated Neighborhood and Scale Information Network for Open-Pit  Mine Change Detection in High-Resolution Remote Sensing Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15032
作者:  Zilin Xie,  Kangning Li,  Jinbao Jiang,  Jinzhong Yang,  Xiaojun Qiao,  Deshuai Yuan,  Cheng Nie
备注:  
Abstract:Open-pit mine change detection (CD) in high-resolution (HR) remote sensing images plays a crucial role in mineral development and environmental protection. Significant progress has been made in this field in recent years, largely due to the advancement of deep learning techniques. However, existing deep-learning-based CD methods encounter challenges in effectively integrating neighborhood and scale information, resulting in suboptimal performance. Therefore, by exploring the influence patterns of neighborhood and scale information, this paper proposes an Integrated Neighborhood and Scale Information Network (INSINet) for open-pit mine CD in HR remote sensing images. Specifically, INSINet introduces 8-neighborhood-image information to acquire a larger receptive field, improving the recognition of center image boundary regions. Drawing on techniques of skip connection, deep supervision, and attention mechanism, the multi-path deep supervised attention (MDSA) module is designed to enhance multi-scale information fusion and change feature extraction. Experimental analysis reveals that incorporating neighborhood and scale information enhances the F1 score of INSINet by 6.40%, with improvements of 3.08% and 3.32% respectively. INSINet outperforms existing methods with an Overall Accuracy of 97.69%, Intersection over Union of 71.26%, and F1 score of 83.22%. INSINet shows significance for open-pit mine CD in HR remote sensing images.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [178]
标题:  Tie-Breaking Rule Based on Partial Proof of Work in a Blockchain
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15030
作者:  Akira Sakurai,  Kazuyuki Shudo
备注:  
Abstract:Numerous methods have been proposed for suppressing intentional forks by attackers in blockchain systems. Among these, last-generated rules, which select the latest chain among chains in a tie, are effective methods that do not require significant changes to the blockchain protocol. However, existing methods either require a trusted third party or rely on timestamps that attackers can manipulate which makes applying a last-generated rule to existing systems such as Bitcoin challenging. To address these issues, we propose a last-generated rule that can be easily applied to existing proof of work blockchain systems. Our method uses partial proof of work, which does not function as a block, as a time standard with finer granularity. Only weak synchronization, which is already met by existing systems, is required for effective functioning. We evaluated the proposed method through a detailed analysis that is lacking in existing works. In networks that adopt our method, the proportion of the attacker hashrate necessary for selfish mining was approximately 0.31479 or higher, regardless of the block propagation capability of the attacker. Furthermore, we demonstrated through extended selfish mining that the impact of Match against pre-generated block, which is a concern in all last-generated rules, can be mitigated with appropriate parameter settings.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [179]
标题:  On the Solution Uniqueness of Data-Driven Modeling of Flexible Loads
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15029
作者:  Shuai Lu,  Jiayi Ding,  Wei Gu,  Junpeng Zhu,  Yijun Xu,  Zhaoyang Dong,  Zezheng Sun
备注:  
Abstract:This letter first explores the solution uniqueness of the data-driven modeling of price-responsive flexible loads (PFL). The PFL on the demand side is critical in modern power systems. An accurate PFL model is fundamental for system operations. Yet, whether the PFL model can be uniquely and correctly identified from operational data remains unclear. To address this, we analyze the structural and practical identifiability of the PFL model, deriving the condition for the solution uniqueness. Based on this, we point out the implications for selecting physical models of PFL to enhance the identification results. Numerical results validate this work.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [180]
标题:  Grey-informed neural network for time-series forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15027
作者:  Wanli Xie,  Ruibin Zhao,  Zhenguo Xu,  Tingting Liang
备注:  
Abstract:Neural network models have shown outstanding performance and successful resolutions to complex problems in various fields. However, the majority of these models are viewed as black-box, requiring a significant amount of data for development. Consequently, in situations with limited data, constructing appropriate models becomes challenging due to the lack of transparency and scarcity of data. To tackle these challenges, this study suggests the implementation of a grey-informed neural network (GINN). The GINN ensures that the output of the neural network follows the differential equation model of the grey system, improving interpretability. Moreover, incorporating prior knowledge from grey system theory enables traditional neural networks to effectively handle small data samples. Our proposed model has been observed to uncover underlying patterns in the real world and produce reliable forecasts based on empirical data.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [181]
标题:  VRSO: Visual-Centric Reconstruction for Static Object Annotation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15026
作者:  Chenyao Yu,  Yingfeng Cai,  Jiaxin Zhang,  Hui Kong,  Wei Sui,  Cong Yang
备注:  submitted to iros 2024
Abstract:As a part of the perception results of intelligent driving systems, static object detection (SOD) in 3D space provides crucial cues for driving environment understanding. With the rapid deployment of deep neural networks for SOD tasks, the demand for high-quality training samples soars. The traditional, also reliable, way is manual labeling over the dense LiDAR point clouds and reference images. Though most public driving datasets adopt this strategy to provide SOD ground truth (GT), it is still expensive (requires LiDAR scanners) and low-efficient (time-consuming and unscalable) in practice. This paper introduces VRSO, a visual-centric approach for static object annotation. VRSO is distinguished in low cost, high efficiency, and high quality: (1) It recovers static objects in 3D space with only camera images as input, and (2) manual labeling is barely involved since GT for SOD tasks is generated based on an automatic reconstruction and annotation pipeline. (3) Experiments on the Waymo Open Dataset show that the mean reprojection error from VRSO annotation is only 2.6 pixels, around four times lower than the Waymo labeling (10.6 pixels). Source code is available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [182]
标题:  Robust Conformal Prediction under Distribution Shift via  Physics-Informed Structural Causal Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15025
作者:  Rui Xu,  Yue Sun,  Chao Chen,  Parv Venkitasubramaniam,  Sihong Xie
备注:  
Abstract:Uncertainty is critical to reliable decision-making with machine learning. Conformal prediction (CP) handles uncertainty by predicting a set on a test input, hoping the set to cover the true label with at least $(1-\alpha)$ confidence. This coverage can be guaranteed on test data even if the marginal distributions $P_X$ differ between calibration and test datasets. However, as it is common in practice, when the conditional distribution $P_{Y|X}$ is different on calibration and test data, the coverage is not guaranteed and it is essential to measure and minimize the coverage loss under distributional shift at \textit{all} possible confidence levels. To address these issues, we upper bound the coverage difference at all levels using the cumulative density functions of calibration and test conformal scores and Wasserstein distance. Inspired by the invariance of physics across data distributions, we propose a physics-informed structural causal model (PI-SCM) to reduce the upper bound. We validated that PI-SCM can improve coverage robustness along confidence level and test domain on a traffic speed prediction task and an epidemic spread task with multiple real-world datasets.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [183]
标题:  Ellipsoidal embeddings of graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15023
作者:  Michaël Fanuel,  Antoine Aspeel,  Michael T. Schaub,  Jean-Charles Delvenne
备注:  29 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Due to their flexibility to represent almost any kind of relational data, graph-based models have enjoyed a tremendous success over the past decades. While graphs are inherently only combinatorial objects, however, many prominent analysis tools are based on the algebraic representation of graphs via matrices such as the graph Laplacian, or on associated graph embeddings. Such embeddings associate to each node a set of coordinates in a vector space, a representation which can then be employed for learning tasks such as the classification or alignment of the nodes of the graph. As the geometric picture provided by embedding methods enables the use of a multitude of methods developed for vector space data, embeddings have thus gained interest both from a theoretical as well as a practical perspective. Inspired by trace-optimization problems, often encountered in the analysis of graph-based data, here we present a method to derive ellipsoidal embeddings of the nodes of a graph, in which each node is assigned a set of coordinates on the surface of a hyperellipsoid. Our method may be seen as an alternative to popular spectral embedding techniques, to which it shares certain similarities we discuss. To illustrate the utility of the embedding we conduct a case study in which analyse synthetic and real world networks with modular structure, and compare the results obtained with known methods in the literature.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [184]
标题:  Insights into the Lottery Ticket Hypothesis and the Iterative Magnitude  Pruning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15022
作者:  Tausifa Jan Saleem,  Ramanjit Ahuja,  Surendra Prasad,  Brejesh Lall
备注:  
Abstract:Lottery ticket hypothesis for deep neural networks emphasizes the importance of initialization used to re-train the sparser networks obtained using the iterative magnitude pruning process. An explanation for why the specific initialization proposed by the lottery ticket hypothesis tends to work better in terms of generalization (and training) performance has been lacking. Moreover, the underlying principles in iterative magnitude pruning, like the pruning of smaller magnitude weights and the role of the iterative process, lack full understanding and explanation. In this work, we attempt to provide insights into these phenomena by empirically studying the volume/geometry and loss landscape characteristics of the solutions obtained at various stages of the iterative magnitude pruning process.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [185]
标题:  Programmers Prefer Individually Assigned Tasks vs. Shared Responsibility
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15021
作者:  Adela Krylova,  Roman Makarov,  Sergei Pasynkov,  Yegor Bugayenko
备注:  
Abstract:In traditional management, tasks are typically assigned to individuals, with each worker taking full responsibility for the success or failure of a task. In contrast, modern Agile, Lean, and eXtreme Programming practices advocate for shared responsibility, where an entire group is accountable for the outcome of a project or task. Despite numerous studies in other domains, the preferences of programmers have not been thoroughly analyzed. To address this gap, we conducted a survey featuring seven situational questions and collected the opinions of 120 software development practitioners. Our findings reveal that programmers prefer tasks to be assigned to them on an individual basis and appreciate taking personal responsibility for failures, as well as receiving individual rewards for successes. Understanding these preferences is crucial for project managers aiming to optimize team dynamics and ensure the successful completion of software projects.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [186]
标题:  BSNet: Box-Supervised Simulation-assisted Mean Teacher for 3D Instance  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15019
作者:  Jiahao Lu,  Jiacheng Deng,  Tianzhu Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:3D instance segmentation (3DIS) is a crucial task, but point-level annotations are tedious in fully supervised settings. Thus, using bounding boxes (bboxes) as annotations has shown great potential. The current mainstream approach is a two-step process, involving the generation of pseudo-labels from box annotations and the training of a 3DIS network with the pseudo-labels. However, due to the presence of intersections among bboxes, not every point has a determined instance label, especially in overlapping areas. To generate higher quality pseudo-labels and achieve more precise weakly supervised 3DIS results, we propose the Box-Supervised Simulation-assisted Mean Teacher for 3D Instance Segmentation (BSNet), which devises a novel pseudo-labeler called Simulation-assisted Transformer. The labeler consists of two main components. The first is Simulation-assisted Mean Teacher, which introduces Mean Teacher for the first time in this task and constructs simulated samples to assist the labeler in acquiring prior knowledge about overlapping areas. To better model local-global structure, we also propose Local-Global Aware Attention as the decoder for teacher and student labelers. Extensive experiments conducted on the ScanNetV2 and S3DIS datasets verify the superiority of our designs. Code is available at \href{this https URL}{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [187]
标题:  Vehicle Detection Performance in Nordic Region
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15017
作者:  Hamam Mokayed,  Rajkumar Saini,  Oluwatosin Adewumi,  Lama Alkhaled,  Bjorn Backe,  Palaiahnakote Shivakumara,  Olle Hagner,  Yan Chai Hum
备注:  submitted to ICPR2024
Abstract:This paper addresses the critical challenge of vehicle detection in the harsh winter conditions in the Nordic regions, characterized by heavy snowfall, reduced visibility, and low lighting. Due to their susceptibility to environmental distortions and occlusions, traditional vehicle detection methods have struggled in these adverse conditions. The advanced proposed deep learning architectures brought promise, yet the unique difficulties of detecting vehicles in Nordic winters remain inadequately addressed. This study uses the Nordic Vehicle Dataset (NVD), which has UAV images from northern Sweden, to evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art vehicle detection algorithms under challenging weather conditions. Our methodology includes a comprehensive evaluation of single-stage, two-stage, and transformer-based detectors against the NVD. We propose a series of enhancements tailored to each detection framework, including data augmentation, hyperparameter tuning, transfer learning, and novel strategies designed explicitly for the DETR model. Our findings not only highlight the limitations of current detection systems in the Nordic environment but also offer promising directions for enhancing these algorithms for improved robustness and accuracy in vehicle detection amidst the complexities of winter landscapes. The code and the dataset are available at https://nvd.ltu-ai.dev
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [188]
标题:  Extracting Human Attention through Crowdsourced Patch Labeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15013
作者:  Minsuk Chang,  Seokhyeon Park,  Hyeon Jeon,  Aeri Cho,  Soohyun Lee,  Jinwook Seo
备注:  21 pages, 11 figures
Abstract:In image classification, a significant problem arises from bias in the datasets. When it contains only specific types of images, the classifier begins to rely on shortcuts - simplistic and erroneous rules for decision-making. This leads to high performance on the training dataset but inferior results on new, varied images, as the classifier's generalization capability is reduced. For example, if the images labeled as mustache consist solely of male figures, the model may inadvertently learn to classify images by gender rather than the presence of a mustache. One approach to mitigate such biases is to direct the model's attention toward the target object's location, usually marked using bounding boxes or polygons for annotation. However, collecting such annotations requires substantial time and human effort. Therefore, we propose a novel patch-labeling method that integrates AI assistance with crowdsourcing to capture human attention from images, which can be a viable solution for mitigating bias. Our method consists of two steps. First, we extract the approximate location of a target using a pre-trained saliency detection model supplemented by human verification for accuracy. Then, we determine the human-attentive area in the image by iteratively dividing the image into smaller patches and employing crowdsourcing to ascertain whether each patch can be classified as the target object. We demonstrated the effectiveness of our method in mitigating bias through improved classification accuracy and the refined focus of the model. Also, crowdsourced experiments validate that our method collects human annotation up to 3.4 times faster than annotating object locations with polygons, significantly reducing the need for human resources. We conclude the paper by discussing the advantages of our method in a crowdsourcing context, mainly focusing on aspects of human errors and accessibility.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [189]
标题:  Empirical investigation of multi-source cross-validation in clinical  machine learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15012
作者:  Tuija Leinonen,  David Wong,  Ali Wahab,  Ramesh Nadarajah,  Matti Kaisti,  Antti Airola
备注:  14 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Traditionally, machine learning-based clinical prediction models have been trained and evaluated on patient data from a single source, such as a hospital. Cross-validation methods can be used to estimate the accuracy of such models on new patients originating from the same source, by repeated random splitting of the data. However, such estimates tend to be highly overoptimistic when compared to accuracy obtained from deploying models to sources not represented in the dataset, such as a new hospital. The increasing availability of multi-source medical datasets provides new opportunities for obtaining more comprehensive and realistic evaluations of expected accuracy through source-level cross-validation designs. In this study, we present a systematic empirical evaluation of standard K-fold cross-validation and leave-source-out cross-validation methods in a multi-source setting. We consider the task of electrocardiogram based cardiovascular disease classification, combining and harmonizing the openly available PhysioNet CinC Challenge 2021 and the Shandong Provincial Hospital datasets for our study. Our results show that K-fold cross-validation, both on single-source and multi-source data, systemically overestimates prediction performance when the end goal is to generalize to new sources. Leave-source-out cross-validation provides more reliable performance estimates, having close to zero bias though larger variability. The evaluation highlights the dangers of obtaining misleading cross-validation results on medical data and demonstrates how these issues can be mitigated when having access to multi-source data.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [190]
标题:  Cell Tracking according to Biological Needs -- Strong Mitosis-aware  Random-finite Sets Tracker with Aleatoric Uncertainty
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15011
作者:  Timo Kaiser,  Maximilian Schier,  Bodo Rosenhahn
备注:  23 pages, 10 figures, 5 tables
Abstract:Cell tracking and segmentation assist biologists in extracting insights from large-scale microscopy time-lapse data. Driven by local accuracy metrics, current tracking approaches often suffer from a lack of long-term consistency. To address this issue, we introduce an uncertainty estimation technique for neural tracking-by-regression frameworks and incorporate it into our novel extended Poisson multi-Bernoulli mixture tracker. Our uncertainty estimation identifies uncertain associations within high-performing tracking-by-regression methods using problem-specific test-time augmentations. Leveraging this uncertainty, along with a novel mitosis-aware assignment problem formulation, our tracker resolves false associations and mitosis detections stemming from long-term conflicts. We evaluate our approach on nine competitive datasets and demonstrate that it outperforms the current state-of-the-art on biologically relevant metrics substantially, achieving improvements by a factor of approximately $5.75$. Furthermore, we uncover new insights into the behavior of tracking-by-regression uncertainty.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [191]
标题:  Clean-image Backdoor Attacks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15010
作者:  Dazhong Rong,  Shuheng Shen,  Xinyi Fu,  Peng Qian,  Jianhai Chen,  Qinming He,  Xing Fu,  Weiqiang Wang
备注:  
Abstract:To gather a significant quantity of annotated training data for high-performance image classification models, numerous companies opt to enlist third-party providers to label their unlabeled data. This practice is widely regarded as secure, even in cases where some annotated errors occur, as the impact of these minor inaccuracies on the final performance of the models is negligible and existing backdoor attacks require attacker's ability to poison the training images. Nevertheless, in this paper, we propose clean-image backdoor attacks which uncover that backdoors can still be injected via a fraction of incorrect labels without modifying the training images. Specifically, in our attacks, the attacker first seeks a trigger feature to divide the training images into two parts: those with the feature and those without it. Subsequently, the attacker falsifies the labels of the former part to a backdoor class. The backdoor will be finally implanted into the target model after it is trained on the poisoned data. During the inference phase, the attacker can activate the backdoor in two ways: slightly modifying the input image to obtain the trigger feature, or taking an image that naturally has the trigger feature as input. We conduct extensive experiments to demonstrate the effectiveness and practicality of our attacks. According to the experimental results, we conclude that our attacks seriously jeopardize the fairness and robustness of image classification models, and it is necessary to be vigilant about the incorrect labels in outsourced labeling.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [192]
标题:  TexRO: Generating Delicate Textures of 3D Models by Recursive  Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15009
作者:  Jinbo Wu,  Xing Liu,  Chenming Wu,  Xiaobo Gao,  Jialun Liu,  Xinqi Liu,  Chen Zhao,  Haocheng Feng,  Errui Ding,  Jingdong Wang
备注:  Technical report. Project page: \href{https://3d-aigc.github.io/TexRO}{this https URL}
Abstract:This paper presents TexRO, a novel method for generating delicate textures of a known 3D mesh by optimizing its UV texture. The key contributions are two-fold. We propose an optimal viewpoint selection strategy, that finds the most miniature set of viewpoints covering all the faces of a mesh. Our viewpoint selection strategy guarantees the completeness of a generated result. We propose a recursive optimization pipeline that optimizes a UV texture at increasing resolutions, with an adaptive denoising method that re-uses existing textures for new texture generation. Through extensive experimentation, we demonstrate the superior performance of TexRO in terms of texture quality, detail preservation, visual consistency, and, notably runtime speed, outperforming other current methods. The broad applicability of TexRO is further confirmed through its successful use on diverse 3D models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [193]
标题:  Tri-Perspective View Decomposition for Geometry-Aware Depth Completion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15008
作者:  Zhiqiang Yan,  Yuankai Lin,  Kun Wang,  Yupeng Zheng,  Yufei Wang,  Zhenyu Zhang,  Jun Li,  Jian Yang
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:Depth completion is a vital task for autonomous driving, as it involves reconstructing the precise 3D geometry of a scene from sparse and noisy depth measurements. However, most existing methods either rely only on 2D depth representations or directly incorporate raw 3D point clouds for compensation, which are still insufficient to capture the fine-grained 3D geometry of the scene. To address this challenge, we introduce Tri-Perspective view Decomposition (TPVD), a novel framework that can explicitly model 3D geometry. In particular, (1) TPVD ingeniously decomposes the original point cloud into three 2D views, one of which corresponds to the sparse depth input. (2) We design TPV Fusion to update the 2D TPV features through recurrent 2D-3D-2D aggregation, where a Distance-Aware Spherical Convolution (DASC) is applied. (3) By adaptively choosing TPV affinitive neighbors, the newly proposed Geometric Spatial Propagation Network (GSPN) further improves the geometric consistency. As a result, our TPVD outperforms existing methods on KITTI, NYUv2, and SUN RGBD. Furthermore, we build a novel depth completion dataset named TOFDC, which is acquired by the time-of-flight (TOF) sensor and the color camera on smartphones. Project page: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [194]
标题:  ParFormer: Vision Transformer Baseline with Parallel Local Global Token  Mixer and Convolution Attention Patch Embedding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15004
作者:  Novendra Setyawan,  Ghufron Wahyu Kurniawan,  Chi-Chia Sun,  Jun-Wei Hsieh,  Hui-Kai Su,  Wen-Kai Kuo
备注:  
Abstract:This work presents ParFormer as an enhanced transformer architecture that allows the incorporation of different token mixers into a single stage, hence improving feature extraction capabilities. Integrating both local and global data allows for precise representation of short- and long-range spatial relationships without the need for computationally intensive methods such as shifting windows. Along with the parallel token mixer encoder, We offer the Convolutional Attention Patch Embedding (CAPE) as an enhancement of standard patch embedding to improve token mixer extraction with a convolutional attention module. Our comprehensive evaluation demonstrates that our ParFormer outperforms CNN-based and state-of-the-art transformer-based architectures in image classification and several complex tasks such as object recognition. The proposed CAPE has been demonstrated to benefit the overall MetaFormer architecture, even while utilizing the Identity Mapping Token Mixer, resulting in a 0.5\% increase in accuracy. The ParFormer models outperformed ConvNeXt and Swin Transformer for the pure convolution and transformer model in accuracy. Furthermore, our model surpasses the current leading hybrid transformer by reaching competitive Top-1 scores in the ImageNet-1K classification test. Specifically, our model variants with 11M, 23M, and 34M parameters achieve scores of 80.4\%, 82.1\%, and 83.1\%, respectively. Code: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [195]
标题:  Magic for the Age of Quantized DNNs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14999
作者:  Yoshihide Sawada,  Ryuji Saiin,  Kazuma Suetake
备注:  14 pages, 5 figures, 4 tables
Abstract:Recently, the number of parameters in DNNs has explosively increased, as exemplified by LLMs (Large Language Models), making inference on small-scale computers more difficult. Model compression technology is, therefore, essential for integration into products. In this paper, we propose a method of quantization-aware training. We introduce a novel normalization (Layer-Batch Normalization) that is independent of the mini-batch size and does not require any additional computation cost during inference. Then, we quantize the weights by the scaled round-clip function with the weight standardization. We also quantize activation functions using the same function and apply surrogate gradients to train the model with both quantized weights and the quantized activation functions. We call this method Magic for the age of Quantised DNNs (MaQD). Experimental results show that our quantization method can be achieved with minimal accuracy degradation.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [196]
标题:  Linear Quadratic Guidance Law for Joint Motion Planning of a  Pursuer-Turret Assembly
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14997
作者:  Bhargav Jha,  Shaunak Bopardikar,  Alexander Von Moll,  David Casbeer
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents joint motion planning of a vehicle with an attached rotating turret. The turret has a limited range as well as the field of view. The objective is capture a maneuvering target such that at the terminal time it is withing the field-of-view and range limits. Catering to it, we present a minimum effort guidance law that commensurate for the turn rate abilities of the vehicle and the turret. The guidance law is obtained using linearization about the collision triangle and admits an analytical solution. Simulation results are presented to exemplify the cooperation between the turret and the vehicle.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [197]
标题:  Improve Cross-domain Mixed Sampling with Guidance Training for Adaptive  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14995
作者:  Wenlve Zhou,  Zhiheng Zhou,  Tianlei Wang,  Delu Zeng
备注:  
Abstract:Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) endeavors to adjust models trained on a source domain to perform well on a target domain without requiring additional annotations. In the context of domain adaptive semantic segmentation, which tackles UDA for dense prediction, the goal is to circumvent the need for costly pixel-level annotations. Typically, various prevailing methods baseline rely on constructing intermediate domains via cross-domain mixed sampling techniques to mitigate the performance decline caused by domain gaps. However, such approaches generate synthetic data that diverge from real-world distributions, potentially leading the model astray from the true target distribution. To address this challenge, we propose a novel auxiliary task called Guidance Training. This task facilitates the effective utilization of cross-domain mixed sampling techniques while mitigating distribution shifts from the real world. Specifically, Guidance Training guides the model to extract and reconstruct the target-domain feature distribution from mixed data, followed by decoding the reconstructed target-domain features to make pseudo-label predictions. Importantly, integrating Guidance Training incurs minimal training overhead and imposes no additional inference burden. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach by integrating it with existing methods, consistently improving performance. The implementation will be available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [198]
标题:  MasonTigers at SemEval-2024 Task 1: An Ensemble Approach for Semantic  Textual Relatedness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14990
作者:  Dhiman Goswami,  Sadiya Sayara Chowdhury Puspo,  Md Nishat Raihan,  Al Nahian Bin Emran,  Amrita Ganguly,  Marcos Zampieri
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents the MasonTigers entry to the SemEval-2024 Task 1 - Semantic Textual Relatedness. The task encompasses supervised (Track A), unsupervised (Track B), and cross-lingual (Track C) approaches across 14 different languages. MasonTigers stands out as one of the two teams who participated in all languages across the three tracks. Our approaches achieved rankings ranging from 11th to 21st in Track A, from 1st to 8th in Track B, and from 5th to 12th in Track C. Adhering to the task-specific constraints, our best performing approaches utilize ensemble of statistical machine learning approaches combined with language-specific BERT based models and sentence transformers.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [199]
标题:  MasonTigers at SemEval-2024 Task 8: Performance Analysis of  Transformer-based Models on Machine-Generated Text Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14989
作者:  Sadiya Sayara Chowdhury Puspo,  Md Nishat Raihan,  Dhiman Goswami,  Al Nahian Bin Emran,  Amrita Ganguly,  Ozlem Uzuner
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents the MasonTigers entry to the SemEval-2024 Task 8 - Multigenerator, Multidomain, and Multilingual Black-Box Machine-Generated Text Detection. The task encompasses Binary Human-Written vs. Machine-Generated Text Classification (Track A), Multi-Way Machine-Generated Text Classification (Track B), and Human-Machine Mixed Text Detection (Track C). Our best performing approaches utilize mainly the ensemble of discriminator transformer models along with sentence transformer and statistical machine learning approaches in specific cases. Moreover, zero-shot prompting and fine-tuning of FLAN-T5 are used for Track A and B.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [200]
标题:  Risk and Response in Large Language Models: Evaluating Key Threat  Categories
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14988
作者:  Bahareh Harandizadeh,  Abel Salinas,  Fred Morstatter
备注:  19 pages, 14 figures
Abstract:This paper explores the pressing issue of risk assessment in Large Language Models (LLMs) as they become increasingly prevalent in various applications. Focusing on how reward models, which are designed to fine-tune pretrained LLMs to align with human values, perceive and categorize different types of risks, we delve into the challenges posed by the subjective nature of preference-based training data. By utilizing the Anthropic Red-team dataset, we analyze major risk categories, including Information Hazards, Malicious Uses, and Discrimination/Hateful content. Our findings indicate that LLMs tend to consider Information Hazards less harmful, a finding confirmed by a specially developed regression model. Additionally, our analysis shows that LLMs respond less stringently to Information Hazards compared to other risks. The study further reveals a significant vulnerability of LLMs to jailbreaking attacks in Information Hazard scenarios, highlighting a critical security concern in LLM risk assessment and emphasizing the need for improved AI safety measures.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [201]
标题:  Generative Active Learning for Image Synthesis Personalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14987
作者:  Xulu Zhang,  Wengyu Zhang,  Xiao-Yong Wei,  Jinlin Wu,  Zhaoxiang Zhang,  Zhen Lei,  Qing Li
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents a pilot study that explores the application of active learning, traditionally studied in the context of discriminative models, to generative models. We specifically focus on image synthesis personalization tasks. The primary challenge in conducting active learning on generative models lies in the open-ended nature of querying, which differs from the closed form of querying in discriminative models that typically target a single concept. We introduce the concept of anchor directions to transform the querying process into a semi-open problem. We propose a direction-based uncertainty sampling strategy to enable generative active learning and tackle the exploitation-exploration dilemma. Extensive experiments are conducted to validate the effectiveness of our approach, demonstrating that an open-source model can achieve superior performance compared to closed-source models developed by large companies, such as Google's StyleDrop. The source code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [202]
标题:  AI Teaches the Art of Elegant Coding: Timely, Fair, and Helpful Style  Feedback in a Global Course
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14986
作者:  Juliette Woodrow,  Ali Malik,  Chris Piech
备注:  
Abstract:Teaching students how to write code that is elegant, reusable, and comprehensible is a fundamental part of CS1 education. However, providing this "style feedback" in a timely manner has proven difficult to scale. In this paper, we present our experience deploying a novel, real-time style feedback tool in Code in Place, a large-scale online CS1 course. Our tool is based on the latest breakthroughs in large-language models (LLMs) and was carefully designed to be safe and helpful for students. We used our Real-Time Style Feedback tool (RTSF) in a class with over 8,000 diverse students from across the globe and ran a randomized control trial to understand its benefits. We show that students who received style feedback in real-time were five times more likely to view and engage with their feedback compared to students who received delayed feedback. Moreover, those who viewed feedback were more likely to make significant style-related edits to their code, with over 79% of these edits directly incorporating their feedback. We also discuss the practicality and dangers of LLM-based tools for feedback, investigating the quality of the feedback generated, LLM limitations, and techniques for consistency, standardization, and safeguarding against demographic bias, all of which are crucial for a tool utilized by students.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [203]
标题:  FileDES: A Secure Scalable and Succinct Decentralized Encrypted Storage  Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14985
作者:  Minghui Xu,  Jiahao Zhang,  Hechuan Guo,  Xiuzhen Cheng,  Dongxiao Yu,  Qin Hu,  Yijun Li,  Yipu Wu
备注:  10 pages, 8 figures, 1 table. Accepted by 2024 IEEE INFOCOM
Abstract:Decentralized Storage Network (DSN) is an emerging technology that challenges traditional cloud-based storage systems by consolidating storage capacities from independent providers and coordinating to provide decentralized storage and retrieval services. However, current DSNs face several challenges associated with data privacy and efficiency of the proof systems. To address these issues, we propose FileDES (\uline{D}ecentralized \uline{E}ncrypted \uline{S}torage), which incorporates three essential elements: privacy preservation, scalable storage proof, and batch verification. FileDES provides encrypted data storage while maintaining data availability, with a scalable Proof of Encrypted Storage (PoES) algorithm that is resilient to Sybil and Generation attacks. Additionally, we introduce a rollup-based batch verification approach to simultaneously verify multiple files using publicly verifiable succinct proofs. We conducted a comparative evaluation on FileDES, Filecoin, Storj and Sia under various conditions, including a WAN composed of up to 120 geographically dispersed nodes. Our protocol outperforms the others in terms of proof generation/verification efficiency, storage costs, and scalability.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [204]
标题:  MasonTigers at SemEval-2024 Task 9: Solving Puzzles with an Ensemble of  Chain-of-Thoughts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14982
作者:  Md Nishat Raihan,  Dhiman Goswami,  Al Nahian Bin Emran,  Sadiya Sayara Chowdhury Puspo,  Amrita Ganguly,  Marcos Zampieri
备注:  
Abstract:Our paper presents team MasonTigers submission to the SemEval-2024 Task 9 - which provides a dataset of puzzles for testing natural language understanding. We employ large language models (LLMs) to solve this task through several prompting techniques. Zero-shot and few-shot prompting generate reasonably good results when tested with proprietary LLMs, compared to the open-source models. We obtain further improved results with chain-of-thought prompting, an iterative prompting method that breaks down the reasoning process step-by-step. We obtain our best results by utilizing an ensemble of chain-of-thought prompts, placing 2nd in the word puzzle subtask and 13th in the sentence puzzle subtask. The strong performance of prompted LLMs demonstrates their capability for complex reasoning when provided with a decomposition of the thought process. Our work sheds light on how step-wise explanatory prompts can unlock more of the knowledge encoded in the parameters of large models.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [205]
标题:  Range-Angle Estimation for FDA-MIMO System With Frequency Offset
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14978
作者:  Mengjiang Sun,  Peng Chen,  Zhenxin Cao
备注:  
Abstract:Frequency diverse array multiple-input multiple-output (FDA-MIMO) radar differs from the traditional phased array (PA) radar, and can form range-angle-dependent beampattern and differentiate between closely spaced targets sharing the same angle but occupying distinct range cells. In the FDA-MIMO radar, target range estimation is achieved by employing a subtle frequency variation between adjacent array antennas, so the estimation performance is degraded severely in a practical scenario with frequency offset. In this paper, the range-angle estimation problem for FDA-MIMO radar is considered with frequency offsets in both transmitting and receiving arrays. First, we build a system model for the FDA-MIMO radar with transmitting and receiving frequency offsets. Then, the frequency offset is transferred into an equalized additional noise. The noise characteristics are analyzed in detail theoretically, together with the influence on the range-angle estimation. Moreover, since the effect of the transmitting frequency offset is similar to additional colored noise, denoising algorithms are introduced to mitigate the performance deterioration caused by the frequency offset. Finally, Cramér-Rao lower bounds (CRLB) for the range-angle estimation are derived in the scenario with the frequency offsets. Simulation results show the analysis of frequency offset and the corresponding estimation performance using different algorithms.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [206]
标题:  Piecewise-Linear Manifolds for Deep Metric Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14977
作者:  Shubhang Bhatnagar,  Narendra Ahuja
备注:  Accepted at CPAL 2024 (Oral)
Abstract:Unsupervised deep metric learning (UDML) focuses on learning a semantic representation space using only unlabeled data. This challenging problem requires accurately estimating the similarity between data points, which is used to supervise a deep network. For this purpose, we propose to model the high-dimensional data manifold using a piecewise-linear approximation, with each low-dimensional linear piece approximating the data manifold in a small neighborhood of a point. These neighborhoods are used to estimate similarity between data points. We empirically show that this similarity estimate correlates better with the ground truth than the similarity estimates of current state-of-the-art techniques. We also show that proxies, commonly used in supervised metric learning, can be used to model the piecewise-linear manifold in an unsupervised setting, helping improve performance. Our method outperforms existing unsupervised metric learning approaches on standard zero-shot image retrieval benchmarks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [207]
标题:  AVT2-DWF: Improving Deepfake Detection with Audio-Visual Fusion and  Dynamic Weighting Strategies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14974
作者:  Rui Wang,  Dengpan Ye,  Long Tang,  Yunming Zhang,  Jiacheng Deng
备注:  
Abstract:With the continuous improvements of deepfake methods, forgery messages have transitioned from single-modality to multi-modal fusion, posing new challenges for existing forgery detection algorithms. In this paper, we propose AVT2-DWF, the Audio-Visual dual Transformers grounded in Dynamic Weight Fusion, which aims to amplify both intra- and cross-modal forgery cues, thereby enhancing detection capabilities. AVT2-DWF adopts a dual-stage approach to capture both spatial characteristics and temporal dynamics of facial expressions. This is achieved through a face transformer with an n-frame-wise tokenization strategy encoder and an audio transformer encoder. Subsequently, it uses multi-modal conversion with dynamic weight fusion to address the challenge of heterogeneous information fusion between audio and visual modalities. Experiments on DeepfakeTIMIT, FakeAVCeleb, and DFDC datasets indicate that AVT2-DWF achieves state-of-the-art performance intra- and cross-dataset Deepfake detection. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [208]
标题:  Trajectory Regularization Enhances Self-Supervised Geometric  Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14973
作者:  Jiayun Wang,  Stella X. Yu,  Yubei Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Self-supervised learning (SSL) has proven effective in learning high-quality representations for various downstream tasks, with a primary focus on semantic tasks. However, its application in geometric tasks remains underexplored, partially due to the absence of a standardized evaluation method for geometric representations. To address this gap, we introduce a new pose-estimation benchmark for assessing SSL geometric representations, which demands training without semantic or pose labels and achieving proficiency in both semantic and geometric downstream tasks. On this benchmark, we study enhancing SSL geometric representations without sacrificing semantic classification accuracy. We find that leveraging mid-layer representations improves pose-estimation performance by 10-20%. Further, we introduce an unsupervised trajectory-regularization loss, which improves performance by an additional 4% and improves generalization ability on out-of-distribution data. We hope the proposed benchmark and methods offer new insights and improvements in self-supervised geometric representation learning.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [209]
标题:  A Picture Is Worth a Graph: Blueprint Debate on Graph for Multimodal  Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14972
作者:  Changmeng Zheng,  Dayong Liang,  Wengyu Zhang,  Xiao-Yong Wei,  Tat-Seng Chua,  Qing Li
备注:  Work in progress
Abstract:This paper presents a pilot study aimed at introducing multi-agent debate into multimodal reasoning. The study addresses two key challenges: the trivialization of opinions resulting from excessive summarization and the diversion of focus caused by distractor concepts introduced from images. These challenges stem from the inductive (bottom-up) nature of existing debating schemes. To address the issue, we propose a deductive (top-down) debating approach called Blueprint Debate on Graphs (BDoG). In BDoG, debates are confined to a blueprint graph to prevent opinion trivialization through world-level summarization. Moreover, by storing evidence in branches within the graph, BDoG mitigates distractions caused by frequent but irrelevant concepts. Extensive experiments validate BDoG, achieving state-of-the-art results in Science QA and MMBench with significant improvements over previous methods.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [210]
标题:  Learners Teaching Novices: An Uplifting Alternative Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14971
作者:  Ali Malik,  Juliette Woodrow,  Chris Piech
备注:  
Abstract:We propose and carry-out a novel method of formative assessment called Assessment via Teaching (AVT), in which learners demonstrate their understanding of CS1 topics by tutoring more novice students. AVT has powerful benefits over traditional forms of assessment: it is centered around service to others and is highly rewarding for the learners who teach. Moreover, teaching greatly improves the learners' own understanding of the material and has a huge positive impact on novices, who receive free 1:1 tutoring. Lastly, this form of assessment is naturally difficult to cheat -- a critical property for assessments in the era of large-language models. We use AVT in a randomised control trial with learners in a CS1 course at an R1 university. The learners provide tutoring sessions to more novice students taking a lagged online version of the same course. We show that learners who do an AVT session before the course exam performed 20 to 30 percentage points better than the class average on several questions. Moreover, compared to students who did a practice exam, the AVT learners enjoyed their experience more and were twice as likely to study for their teaching session. We believe AVT is a scalable and uplifting method for formative assessment that could one day replace traditional exams.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [211]
标题:  Real-time Safety Index Adaptation for Parameter-varying Systems via  Determinant Gradient Ascend
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14968
作者:  Rui Chen,  Weiye Zhao,  Ruixuan Liu,  Weiyang Zhang,  Changliu Liu
备注:  Accepted to American Control Conference (ACC) 2024
Abstract:Safety Index Synthesis (SIS) is critical for deriving safe control laws. Recent works propose to synthesize a safety index (SI) via nonlinear programming and derive a safe control law such that the system 1) achieves forward invariant (FI) with some safe set and 2) guarantees finite time convergence (FTC) to that safe set. However, real-world system dynamics can vary during run-time, making the control law infeasible and invalidating the initial SI. Since the full SIS nonlinear programming is computationally expensive, it is infeasible to re-synthesize the SI each time the dynamics are perturbed. To address that, this paper proposes an efficient approach to adapting the SI to varying system dynamics and maintaining the feasibility of the safe control law. The proposed method leverages determinant gradient ascend and derives a closed-form update to safety index parameters, enabling real-time adaptation performance. A numerical study validates the effectiveness of our approach.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [212]
标题:  DreamFlow: High-Quality Text-to-3D Generation by Approximating  Probability Flow
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14966
作者:  Kyungmin Lee,  Kihyuk Sohn,  Jinwoo Shin
备注:  ICLR 2024
Abstract:Recent progress in text-to-3D generation has been achieved through the utilization of score distillation methods: they make use of the pre-trained text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models by distilling via the diffusion model training objective. However, such an approach inevitably results in the use of random timesteps at each update, which increases the variance of the gradient and ultimately prolongs the optimization process. In this paper, we propose to enhance the text-to-3D optimization by leveraging the T2I diffusion prior in the generative sampling process with a predetermined timestep schedule. To this end, we interpret text-to3D optimization as a multi-view image-to-image translation problem, and propose a solution by approximating the probability flow. By leveraging the proposed novel optimization algorithm, we design DreamFlow, a practical three-stage coarseto-fine text-to-3D optimization framework that enables fast generation of highquality and high-resolution (i.e., 1024x1024) 3D contents. For example, we demonstrate that DreamFlow is 5 times faster than the existing state-of-the-art text-to-3D method, while producing more photorealistic 3D contents. Visit our project page (this https URL) for visualizations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [213]
标题:  Comprehensive Evaluation and Insights into the Use of Large Language  Models in the Automation of Behavior-Driven Development Acceptance Test  Formulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14965
作者:  Shanthi Karpurapu,  Sravanthy Myneni,  Unnati Nettur,  Likhit Sagar Gajja,  Dave Burke,  Tom Stiehm,  Jeffery Payne
备注:  
Abstract:Behavior-driven development (BDD) is an Agile testing methodology fostering collaboration among developers, QA analysts, and stakeholders. In this manuscript, we propose a novel approach to enhance BDD practices using large language models (LLMs) to automate acceptance test generation. Our study uses zero and few-shot prompts to evaluate LLMs such as GPT-3.5, GPT-4, Llama-2-13B, and PaLM-2. The paper presents a detailed methodology that includes the dataset, prompt techniques, LLMs, and the evaluation process. The results demonstrate that GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 generate error-free BDD acceptance tests with better performance. The few-shot prompt technique highlights its ability to provide higher accuracy by incorporating examples for in-context learning. Furthermore, the study examines syntax errors, validation accuracy, and comparative analysis of LLMs, revealing their effectiveness in enhancing BDD practices. However, our study acknowledges that there are limitations to the proposed approach. We emphasize that this approach can support collaborative BDD processes and create opportunities for future research into automated BDD acceptance test generation using LLMs.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [214]
标题:  Enabling Physical Localization of Uncooperative Cellular Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14963
作者:  Taekkyung Oh,  Sangwook Bae,  Junho Ahn,  Yonghwa Lee,  Dinh-Tuan Hoang,  Min Suk Kang,  Nils Ole Tippenhauer,  Yongdae Kim
备注:  
Abstract:In cellular networks, it can become necessary for authorities to physically locate user devices for tracking criminals or illegal devices. While cellular operators can provide authorities with cell information the device is camping on, fine-grained localization is still required. Therefore, the authorized agents trace the device by monitoring its uplink signals. However, tracking the uplink signal source without its cooperation is challenging even for operators and authorities. Particularly, three challenges remain for fine-grained localization: i) localization works only if devices generate enough uplink traffic reliably over time, ii) the target device might generate its uplink traffic with significantly low power, and iii) cellular repeater may add too much noise to true uplink signals. While these challenges present practical hurdles for localization, they have been overlooked in prior works. In this work, we investigate the impact of these real-world challenges on cellular localization and propose an Uncooperative Multiangulation Attack (UMA) that addresses these challenges. UMA can 1) force a target device to transmit traffic continuously, 2) boost the target's signal strength to the maximum, and 3) uniquely distinguish traffic from the target and the repeaters. Notably, the UMA technique works without privilege on cellular operators or user devices, which makes it operate on any LTE network. Our evaluations show that UMA effectively resolves the challenges in real-world environments when devices are not cooperative for localization. Our approach exploits the current cellular design vulnerabilities, which we have responsibly disclosed to GSMA.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [215]
标题:  Anderson Acceleration with Truncated Gram-Schmidt
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14961
作者:  Ziyuan Tang,  Tianshi Xu,  Huan He,  Yousef Saad,  Yuanzhe Xi
备注:  
Abstract:Anderson Acceleration (AA) is a popular algorithm designed to enhance the convergence of fixed-point iterations. In this paper, we introduce a variant of AA based on a Truncated Gram-Schmidt process (AATGS) which has a few advantages over the classical AA. In particular, an attractive feature of AATGS is that its iterates obey a three-term recurrence in the situation when it is applied to solving symmetric linear problems and this can lead to a considerable reduction of memory and computational costs. We analyze the convergence of AATGS in both full-depth and limited-depth scenarios and establish its equivalence to the classical AA in the linear case. We also report on the effectiveness of AATGS through a set of numerical experiments, ranging from solving nonlinear partial differential equations to tackling nonlinear optimization problems. In particular, the performance of the method is compared with that of the classical AA algorithms.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [216]
标题:  Adapprox: Adaptive Approximation in Adam Optimization via Randomized  Low-Rank Matrices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14958
作者:  Pengxiang Zhao,  Ping Li,  Yingjie Gu,  Yi Zheng,  Stephan Ludger Kölker,  Zhefeng Wang,  Xiaoming Yuan
备注:  
Abstract:As deep learning models exponentially increase in size, optimizers such as Adam encounter significant memory consumption challenges due to the storage of first and second moment data. Current memory-efficient methods like Adafactor and CAME often compromise accuracy with their matrix factorization techniques. Addressing this, we introduce Adapprox, a novel approach that employs randomized low-rank matrix approximation for a more effective and accurate approximation of Adam's second moment. Adapprox features an adaptive rank selection mechanism, finely balancing accuracy and memory efficiency, and includes an optional cosine similarity guidance strategy to enhance stability and expedite convergence. In GPT-2 training and downstream tasks, Adapprox surpasses AdamW by achieving 34.5% to 49.9% and 33.8% to 49.9% memory savings for the 117M and 345M models, respectively, with the first moment enabled, and further increases these savings without the first moment. Besides, it enhances convergence speed and improves downstream task performance relative to its counterparts.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [217]
标题:  Two-scale Analysis for Multiscale Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert Equation:  Theory and Numerical Methods
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14957
作者:  Xiaofei Guan,  Hang Qi,  Zhiwei Sun
备注:  
Abstract:This paper discusses the theory and numerical method of two-scale analysis for the multiscale Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert equation in composite ferromagnetic materials. The novelty of this work can be summarized in three aspects: Firstly, the more realistic and complex model is considered, including the effects of the exchange field, anisotropy field, stray field, and external magnetic field. The explicit convergence orders in the $H^1$ norm between the classical solution and the two-scale solution are obtained. Secondly, we propose a robust numerical framework, which is employed in several comprehensive experiments to validate the convergence results for the Periodic and Neumann problems. Thirdly, we design an improved implicit numerical scheme to reduce the required number of iterations and relaxes the constraints on the time step size, which can significantly improve computational efficiency. Specifically, the projection and the expansion methods are given to overcome the inherent non-consistency in the initial data between the multiscale problem and homogenized problem.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)

**编号**: [218]
标题:  Boundary-Aware Value Function Generation for Safe Stochastic Motion  Planning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14956
作者:  Junhong Xu,  Kai Yin,  Jason M. Gregory,  Kris Hauser,  Lantao Liu
备注:  Accepted by International Journal of Robotics Research
Abstract:Navigation safety is critical for many autonomous systems such as self-driving vehicles in an urban environment. It requires an explicit consideration of boundary constraints that describe the borders of any infeasible, non-navigable, or unsafe regions. We propose a principled boundary-aware safe stochastic planning framework with promising results. Our method generates a value function that can strictly distinguish the state values between free (safe) and non-navigable (boundary) spaces in the continuous state, naturally leading to a safe boundary-aware policy. At the core of our solution lies a seamless integration of finite elements and kernel-based functions, where the finite elements allow us to characterize safety-critical states' borders accurately, and the kernel-based function speeds up computation for the non-safety-critical states. The proposed method was evaluated through extensive simulations and demonstrated safe navigation behaviors in mobile navigation tasks. Additionally, we demonstrate that our approach can maneuver safely and efficiently in cluttered real-world environments using a ground vehicle with strong external disturbances, such as navigating on a slippery floor and against external human intervention.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [219]
标题:  Evidence-Driven Retrieval Augmented Response Generation for Online  Misinformation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14952
作者:  Zhenrui Yue,  Huimin Zeng,  Yimeng Lu,  Lanyu Shang,  Yang Zhang,  Dong Wang
备注:  Accepted to NAACL 2024
Abstract:The proliferation of online misinformation has posed significant threats to public interest. While numerous online users actively participate in the combat against misinformation, many of such responses can be characterized by the lack of politeness and supporting facts. As a solution, text generation approaches are proposed to automatically produce counter-misinformation responses. Nevertheless, existing methods are often trained end-to-end without leveraging external knowledge, resulting in subpar text quality and excessively repetitive responses. In this paper, we propose retrieval augmented response generation for online misinformation (RARG), which collects supporting evidence from scientific sources and generates counter-misinformation responses based on the evidences. In particular, our RARG consists of two stages: (1) evidence collection, where we design a retrieval pipeline to retrieve and rerank evidence documents using a database comprising over 1M academic articles; (2) response generation, in which we align large language models (LLMs) to generate evidence-based responses via reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). We propose a reward function to maximize the utilization of the retrieved evidence while maintaining the quality of the generated text, which yields polite and factual responses that clearly refutes misinformation. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, we study the case of COVID-19 and perform extensive experiments with both in- and cross-domain datasets, where RARG consistently outperforms baselines by generating high-quality counter-misinformation responses.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [220]
标题:  Simple Graph Condensation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14951
作者:  Zhenbang Xiao,  Yu Wang,  Shunyu Liu,  Huiqiong Wang,  Mingli Song,  Tongya Zheng
备注:  Under review
Abstract:The burdensome training costs on large-scale graphs have aroused significant interest in graph condensation, which involves tuning Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) on a small condensed graph for use on the large-scale original graph. Existing methods primarily focus on aligning key metrics between the condensed and original graphs, such as gradients, distribution and trajectory of GNNs, yielding satisfactory performance on downstream tasks. However, these complex metrics necessitate intricate computations and can potentially disrupt the optimization process of the condensation graph, making the condensation process highly demanding and unstable. Motivated by the recent success of simplified models in various fields, we propose a simplified approach to metric alignment in graph condensation, aiming to reduce unnecessary complexity inherited from GNNs. In our approach, we eliminate external parameters and exclusively retain the target condensed graph during the condensation process. Following the hierarchical aggregation principles of GNNs, we introduce the Simple Graph Condensation (SimGC) framework, which aligns the condensed graph with the original graph from the input layer to the prediction layer, guided by a pre-trained Simple Graph Convolution (SGC) model on the original graph. As a result, both graphs possess the similar capability to train GNNs. This straightforward yet effective strategy achieves a significant speedup of up to 10 times compared to existing graph condensation methods while performing on par with state-of-the-art baselines. Comprehensive experiments conducted on seven benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of SimGC in prediction accuracy, condensation time, and generalization capability. Our code will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [221]
标题:  KnowLA: Enhancing Parameter-efficient Finetuning with Knowledgeable  Adaptation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14950
作者:  Xindi Luo,  Zequn Sun,  Jing Zhao,  Zhe Zhao,  Wei Hu
备注:  Accepted in the 2024 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL 2024)
Abstract:Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) is a key technique for adapting large language models (LLMs) to downstream tasks. In this paper, we study leveraging knowledge graph embeddings to improve the effectiveness of PEFT. We propose a knowledgeable adaptation method called KnowLA. It inserts an adaptation layer into an LLM to integrate the embeddings of entities appearing in the input text. The adaptation layer is trained in combination with LoRA on instruction data. Experiments on six benchmarks with two popular LLMs and three knowledge graphs demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of KnowLA. We show that \modelname can help activate the relevant parameterized knowledge in an LLM to answer a question without changing its parameters or input prompts.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [222]
标题:  Addressing Concept Shift in Online Time Series Forecasting:  Detect-then-Adapt
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14949
作者:  YiFan Zhang,  Weiqi Chen,  Zhaoyang Zhu,  Dalin Qin,  Liang Sun,  Xue Wang,  Qingsong Wen,  Zhang Zhang,  Liang Wang,  Rong Jin
备注:  7 figures, 14 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2309.12659
Abstract:Online updating of time series forecasting models aims to tackle the challenge of concept drifting by adjusting forecasting models based on streaming data. While numerous algorithms have been developed, most of them focus on model design and updating. In practice, many of these methods struggle with continuous performance regression in the face of accumulated concept drifts over time. To address this limitation, we present a novel approach, Concept \textbf{D}rift \textbf{D}etection an\textbf{D} \textbf{A}daptation (D3A), that first detects drifting conception and then aggressively adapts the current model to the drifted concepts after the detection for rapid adaption. To best harness the utility of historical data for model adaptation, we propose a data augmentation strategy introducing Gaussian noise into existing training instances. It helps mitigate the data distribution gap, a critical factor contributing to train-test performance inconsistency. The significance of our data augmentation process is verified by our theoretical analysis. Our empirical studies across six datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of D3A in improving model adaptation capability. Notably, compared to a simple Temporal Convolutional Network (TCN) baseline, D3A reduces the average Mean Squared Error (MSE) by $43.9\%$. For the state-of-the-art (SOTA) model, the MSE is reduced by $33.3\%$.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [223]
标题:  GPT-Connect: Interaction between Text-Driven Human Motion Generator and  3D Scenes in a Training-free Manner
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14947
作者:  Haoxuan Qu,  Ziyan Guo,  Jun Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, while text-driven human motion generation has received massive research attention, most existing text-driven motion generators are generally only designed to generate motion sequences in a blank background. While this is the case, in practice, human beings naturally perform their motions in 3D scenes, rather than in a blank background. Considering this, we here aim to perform scene-aware text-drive motion generation instead. Yet, intuitively training a separate scene-aware motion generator in a supervised way can require a large amount of motion samples to be troublesomely collected and annotated in a large scale of different 3D scenes. To handle this task rather in a relatively convenient manner, in this paper, we propose a novel GPT-connect framework. In GPT-connect, we enable scene-aware motion sequences to be generated directly utilizing the existing blank-background human motion generator, via leveraging ChatGPT to connect the existing motion generator with the 3D scene in a totally training-free manner. Extensive experiments demonstrate the efficacy and generalizability of our proposed framework.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [224]
标题:  A Single Linear Layer Yields Task-Adapted Low-Rank Matrices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14946
作者:  Hwichan Kim,  Shota Sasaki,  Sho Hoshino,  Ukyo Honda
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) is a widely used Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) method that updates an initial weight matrix $W_0$ with a delta matrix $\Delta W$ consisted by two low-rank matrices $A$ and $B$. A previous study suggested that there is correlation between $W_0$ and $\Delta W$. In this study, we aim to delve deeper into relationships between $W_0$ and low-rank matrices $A$ and $B$ to further comprehend the behavior of LoRA. In particular, we analyze a conversion matrix that transform $W_0$ into low-rank matrices, which encapsulates information about the relationships. Our analysis reveals that the conversion matrices are similar across each layer. Inspired by these findings, we hypothesize that a single linear layer, which takes each layer's $W_0$ as input, can yield task-adapted low-rank matrices. To confirm this hypothesis, we devise a method named Conditionally Parameterized LoRA (CondLoRA) that updates initial weight matrices with low-rank matrices derived from a single linear layer. Our empirical results show that CondLoRA maintains a performance on par with LoRA, despite the fact that the trainable parameters of CondLoRA are fewer than those of LoRA. Therefore, we conclude that "a single linear layer yields task-adapted low-rank matrices."
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [225]
标题:  CLIP-VQDiffusion : Langauge Free Training of Text To Image generation  using CLIP and vector quantized diffusion model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14944
作者:  Seungdae Han,  Joohee Kim
备注:  15 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:There has been a significant progress in text conditional image generation models. Recent advancements in this field depend not only on improvements in model structures, but also vast quantities of text-image paired datasets. However, creating these kinds of datasets is very costly and requires a substantial amount of labor. Famous face datasets don't have corresponding text captions, making it difficult to develop text conditional image generation models on these datasets. Some research has focused on developing text to image generation models using only images without text captions. Here, we propose CLIP-VQDiffusion, which leverage the pretrained CLIP model to provide multimodal text-image representations and strong image generation capabilities. On the FFHQ dataset, our model outperformed previous state-of-the-art methods by 4.4% in clipscore and generated very realistic images even when the text was both in and out of distribution. The pretrained models and codes will soon be available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [226]
标题:  Primary Rate Maximization in Movable Antennas Empowered Symbiotic Radio  Communications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14943
作者:  Bin Lyu,  Hao Liu,  Wenqing Hong,  Shimin Gong,  Feng Tian
备注:  To appear in IEEE VTC-Spring 2024. 6 Pages,5 figures
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a movable antenna (MA) empowered scheme for symbiotic radio (SR) communication systems. Specifically, multiple antennas at the primary transmitter (PT) can be flexibly moved to favorable locations to boost the channel conditions of the primary and secondary transmissions. The primary transmission is achieved by the active transmission from the PT to the primary user (PU), while the backscatter device (BD) takes a ride over the incident signal from the PT to passively send the secondary signal to the PU. Under this setup, we consider a primary rate maximization problem by jointly optimizing the transmit beamforming and the positions of MAs at the PT under a practical bit error rate constraint on the secondary transmission. Then, an alternating optimization framework with the utilization of the successive convex approximation, semi-definite processing and simulated annealing (SA) modified particle swarm optimization (SA-PSO) methods is proposed to find the solution of the transmit beamforming and MAs' positions. Finally, numerical results are provided to demonstrate the performance improvement provided by the proposed MA empowered scheme and the proposed algorithm.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [227]
标题:  Unifying Lane-Level Traffic Prediction from a Graph Structural  Perspective: Benchmark and Baseline
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14941
作者:  Shuhao Li,  Yue Cui,  Jingyi Xu,  Libin Li,  Lingkai Meng,  Weidong Yang,  Fan Zhang,  Xiaofang Zhou
备注:  
Abstract:Traffic prediction has long been a focal and pivotal area in research, witnessing both significant strides from city-level to road-level predictions in recent years. With the advancement of Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) technologies, autonomous driving, and large-scale models in the traffic domain, lane-level traffic prediction has emerged as an indispensable direction. However, further progress in this field is hindered by the absence of comprehensive and unified evaluation standards, coupled with limited public availability of data and code. This paper extensively analyzes and categorizes existing research in lane-level traffic prediction, establishes a unified spatial topology structure and prediction tasks, and introduces a simple baseline model, GraphMLP, based on graph structure and MLP networks. We have replicated codes not publicly available in existing studies and, based on this, thoroughly and fairly assessed various models in terms of effectiveness, efficiency, and applicability, providing insights for practical applications. Additionally, we have released three new datasets and corresponding codes to accelerate progress in this field, all of which can be found on this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [228]
标题:  Fat API bindings of C++ objects into scripting languages
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14940
作者:  Russell K. Standish
备注:  
Abstract:A fat API exposes nearly all of a C++ object's public attributes and methods to a consuming environment, such as a scripting language, or web client. This can be contrasted with a conventional, or thin API, where the API is defined up front, and the C++ object provides the implementation, most of which is private to the C++ layer. Obviously, reflection is required to expose C++ objects to a consuming layer like this -- this paper explores using the Classdesc system to implement reflection of C++ objects into a JavaScript/TypeScript environment via a RESTservice, and also via a Node.js API module.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [229]
标题:  STAG4D: Spatial-Temporal Anchored Generative 4D Gaussians
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14939
作者:  Yifei Zeng,  Yanqin Jiang,  Siyu Zhu,  Yuanxun Lu,  Youtian Lin,  Hao Zhu,  Weiming Hu,  Xun Cao,  Yao Yao
备注:  
Abstract:Recent progress in pre-trained diffusion models and 3D generation have spurred interest in 4D content creation. However, achieving high-fidelity 4D generation with spatial-temporal consistency remains a challenge. In this work, we propose STAG4D, a novel framework that combines pre-trained diffusion models with dynamic 3D Gaussian splatting for high-fidelity 4D generation. Drawing inspiration from 3D generation techniques, we utilize a multi-view diffusion model to initialize multi-view images anchoring on the input video frames, where the video can be either real-world captured or generated by a video diffusion model. To ensure the temporal consistency of the multi-view sequence initialization, we introduce a simple yet effective fusion strategy to leverage the first frame as a temporal anchor in the self-attention computation. With the almost consistent multi-view sequences, we then apply the score distillation sampling to optimize the 4D Gaussian point cloud. The 4D Gaussian spatting is specially crafted for the generation task, where an adaptive densification strategy is proposed to mitigate the unstable Gaussian gradient for robust optimization. Notably, the proposed pipeline does not require any pre-training or fine-tuning of diffusion networks, offering a more accessible and practical solution for the 4D generation task. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms prior 4D generation works in rendering quality, spatial-temporal consistency, and generation robustness, setting a new state-of-the-art for 4D generation from diverse inputs, including text, image, and video.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [230]
标题:  On Zero-Shot Counterspeech Generation by LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14938
作者:  Punyajoy Saha,  Aalok Agrawal,  Abhik Jana,  Chris Biemann,  Animesh Mukherjee
备注:  12 pages, 7 tables, accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:With the emergence of numerous Large Language Models (LLM), the usage of such models in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications is increasing extensively. Counterspeech generation is one such key task where efforts are made to develop generative models by fine-tuning LLMs with hatespeech - counterspeech pairs, but none of these attempts explores the intrinsic properties of large language models in zero-shot settings. In this work, we present a comprehensive analysis of the performances of four LLMs namely GPT-2, DialoGPT, ChatGPT and FlanT5 in zero-shot settings for counterspeech generation, which is the first of its kind. For GPT-2 and DialoGPT, we further investigate the deviation in performance with respect to the sizes (small, medium, large) of the models. On the other hand, we propose three different prompting strategies for generating different types of counterspeech and analyse the impact of such strategies on the performance of the models. Our analysis shows that there is an improvement in generation quality for two datasets (17%), however the toxicity increase (25%) with increase in model size. Considering type of model, GPT-2 and FlanT5 models are significantly better in terms of counterspeech quality but also have high toxicity as compared to DialoGPT. ChatGPT are much better at generating counter speech than other models across all metrics. In terms of prompting, we find that our proposed strategies help in improving counter speech generation across all the models.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [231]
标题:  Survey on Modeling of Articulated Objects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14937
作者:  Jiayi Liu,  Manolis Savva,  Ali Mahdavi-Amiri
备注:  
Abstract:3D modeling of articulated objects is a research problem within computer vision, graphics, and robotics. Its objective is to understand the shape and motion of the articulated components, represent the geometry and mobility of object parts, and create realistic models that reflect articulated objects in the real world. This survey provides a comprehensive overview of the current state-of-the-art in 3D modeling of articulated objects, with a specific focus on the task of articulated part perception and articulated object creation (reconstruction and generation). We systematically review and discuss the relevant literature from two perspectives: geometry processing and articulation modeling. Through this survey, we highlight the substantial progress made in these areas, outline the ongoing challenges, and identify gaps for future research. Our survey aims to serve as a foundational reference for researchers and practitioners in computer vision and graphics, offering insights into the complexities of articulated object modeling.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [232]
标题:  Attention-Driven Reasoning: Unlocking the Potential of Large Language  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14932
作者:  Bingli Liao,  Danilo Vasconcellos Vargas
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities, but their reasoning abilities and underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. We present a novel approach to enhance LLMs' reasoning through attention mechanism optimization, without additional training data. We identify inefficiencies in the attention distribution caused by non-semantic tokens and propose an algorithm to re-balance the skewed distribution, enabling the model to abstract more nuanced knowledge. Our experiments demonstrate significantly improved reasoning capabilities, particularly for non-STEM questions. We provide insights into the role of attention patterns in LLMs' reasoning and propose a method to enhance these abilities, paving the way for more powerful and versatile language models.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [233]
标题:  Structured stability analysis of networked systems with uncertain links
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14931
作者:  Simone Mariano,  Michael Cantoni
备注:  
Abstract:An input-output approach to stability analysis is explored for networked systems with uncertain link dynamics. The main result consists of a collection of integral quadratic constraints, which together imply robust stability of the uncertain networked system, under the assumption that stability is achieved with ideal links. The conditions are decentralized inasmuch as each involves only agent and uncertainty model parameters that are local to a corresponding link. This makes the main result, which imposes no restriction on network structure, suitable for the study of large-scale systems.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)

**编号**: [234]
标题:  "The Law Doesn't Work Like a Computer": Exploring Software Licensing  Issues Faced by Legal Practitioners
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14927
作者:  Nathan Wintersgill,  Trevor Stalnaker,  Laura A. Heymann,  Oscar Chaparro,  Denys Poshyvanyk
备注:  24 pages, 2 figures, FSE 2024
Abstract:Most modern software products incorporate open source components, which requires compliance with each component's licenses. As noncompliance can lead to significant repercussions, organizations often seek advice from legal practitioners to maintain license compliance, address licensing issues, and manage the risks of noncompliance. While legal practitioners play a critical role in the process, little is known in the software engineering community about their experiences within the open source license compliance ecosystem. To fill this knowledge gap, a joint team of software engineering and legal researchers designed and conducted a survey with 30 legal practitioners and related occupations and then held 16 follow-up interviews. We identified different aspects of OSS license compliance from the perspective of legal practitioners, resulting in 14 key findings in three main areas of interest: the general ecosystem of compliance, the specific compliance practices of legal practitioners, and the challenges that legal practitioners face. We discuss the implications of our findings.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [235]
标题:  CODA: A COst-efficient Test-time Domain Adaptation Mechanism for HAR
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14922
作者:  Minghui Qiu (DSA, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology,Guangzhou),  Yandao Huang (CSE, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology),  Lin Chen (DSA, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Guangzhou),  Lu Wang (CSSE, Shenzhen University),  Kaishun Wu (DSA and IoT, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Guangzhou)
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, emerging research on mobile sensing has led to novel scenarios that enhance daily life for humans, but dynamic usage conditions often result in performance degradation when systems are deployed in real-world settings. Existing solutions typically employ one-off adaptation schemes based on neural networks, which struggle to ensure robustness against uncertain drifting conditions in human-centric sensing scenarios. In this paper, we propose CODA, a COst-efficient Domain Adaptation mechanism for mobile sensing that addresses real-time drifts from the data distribution perspective with active learning theory, ensuring cost-efficient adaptation directly on the device. By incorporating a clustering loss and importance-weighted active learning algorithm, CODA retains the relationship between different clusters during cost-effective instance-level updates, preserving meaningful structure within the data distribution. We also showcase its generalization by seamlessly integrating it with Neural Network-based solutions for Human Activity Recognition tasks. Through meticulous evaluations across diverse datasets, including phone-based, watch-based, and integrated sensor-based sensing tasks, we demonstrate the feasibility and potential of online adaptation with CODA. The promising results achieved by CODA, even without learnable parameters, also suggest the possibility of realizing unobtrusive adaptation through specific application designs with sufficient feedback.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [236]
标题:  Hierarchical Skip Decoding for Efficient Autoregressive Text Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14919
作者:  Yunqi Zhu,  Xuebing Yang,  Yuanyuan Wu,  Wensheng Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Autoregressive decoding strategy is a commonly used method for text generation tasks with pre-trained language models, while early-exiting is an effective approach to speedup the inference stage. In this work, we propose a novel decoding strategy named Hierarchical Skip Decoding (HSD) for efficient autoregressive text generation. Different from existing methods that require additional trainable components, HSD is a plug-and-play method applicable to autoregressive text generation models, it adaptively skips decoding layers in a hierarchical manner based on the current sequence length, thereby reducing computational workload and allocating computation resources. Comprehensive experiments on five text generation datasets with pre-trained language models demonstrate HSD's advantages in balancing efficiency and text quality. With almost half of the layers skipped, HSD can sustain 90% of the text quality compared to vanilla autoregressive decoding, outperforming the competitive approaches.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [237]
标题:  Deep learning-based method for weather forecasting: A case study in  Itoshima
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14918
作者:  Yuzhong Cheng,  Linh Thi Hoai Nguyen,  Akinori Ozaki,  Ton Viet Ta
备注:  
Abstract:Accurate weather forecasting is of paramount importance for a wide range of practical applications, drawing substantial scientific and societal interest. However, the intricacies of weather systems pose substantial challenges to accurate predictions. This research introduces a multilayer perceptron model tailored for weather forecasting in Itoshima, Kyushu, Japan. Our meticulously designed architecture demonstrates superior performance compared to existing models, surpassing benchmarks such as Long Short-Term Memory and Recurrent Neural Networks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [238]
标题:  Mean-field Analysis on Two-layer Neural Networks from a Kernel  Perspective
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14917
作者:  Shokichi Takakura,  Taiji Suzuki
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we study the feature learning ability of two-layer neural networks in the mean-field regime through the lens of kernel methods. To focus on the dynamics of the kernel induced by the first layer, we utilize a two-timescale limit, where the second layer moves much faster than the first layer. In this limit, the learning problem is reduced to the minimization problem over the intrinsic kernel. Then, we show the global convergence of the mean-field Langevin dynamics and derive time and particle discretization error. We also demonstrate that two-layer neural networks can learn a union of multiple reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces more efficiently than any kernel methods, and neural networks acquire data-dependent kernel which aligns with the target function. In addition, we develop a label noise procedure, which converges to the global optimum and show that the degrees of freedom appears as an implicit regularization.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [239]
标题:  Snail: Secure Single Iteration Localization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14916
作者:  James Choncholas,  Pujith Kachana,  André Mateus,  Gregoire Phillips,  Ada Gavrilovska
备注:  
Abstract:Localization is a computer vision task by which the position and orientation of a camera is determined from an image and environmental map. We propose a method for performing localization in a privacy preserving manner supporting two scenarios: first, when the image and map are held by a client who wishes to offload localization to untrusted third parties, and second, when the image and map are held separately by untrusting parties. Privacy preserving localization is necessary when the image and map are confidential, and offloading conserves on-device power and frees resources for other tasks. To accomplish this we integrate existing localization methods and secure multi-party computation (MPC), specifically garbled circuits, yielding proof-based security guarantees in contrast to existing obfuscation-based approaches which recent related work has shown vulnerable. We present two approaches to localization, a baseline data-oblivious adaptation of localization suitable for garbled circuits and our novel Single Iteration Localization. Our technique improves overall performance while maintaining confidentiality of the input image, map, and output pose at the expense of increased communication rounds but reduced computation and communication required per round. Single Iteration Localization is over two orders of magnitude faster than a straightforward application of garbled circuits to localization enabling real-world usage in the first robot to offload localization without revealing input images, environmental map, position, or orientation to offload servers.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [240]
标题:  Optimisation of photodetectors design: comparison between Montecarlo and  Genetic Algorithms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14913
作者:  Patricia M. E. Vázquez,  Ligia Ciocci Brazzano,  Francisco E. Veiras,  Patricio A. Sorichetti
备注:  10 pages, 14 figures
Abstract:We present Montecarlo and Genetic Algorithm optimisations applied to the design of photodetectors based on a transimpedance amplifier and a photodiode. The circuit performance is evaluated with a merit function and the systematic search method is used as a reference. The design parameters are the feedback network components and the photodiode bias voltage. To evaluate the optimisations, we define the relative difference between its merit and the optimum merit obtained by the systematic search. In both algorithms, the relative difference decreases with the number of evaluations, following a power law. The power-law exponent for the Genetic Algorithm is larger than that of Montecarlo (0.74 vs. 0.50). We conclude that both algorithms are advantageous compared to the systematic search method, and that the Genetic Algorithm shows a better performance than Montecarlo.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)

**编号**: [241]
标题:  Secure Outage Analysis for RIS-Aided MISO Systems with Randomly Located  Eavesdroppers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14911
作者:  Wei Shi,  Jindan Xu,  Wei Xu,  Chau Yuen,  A. Lee Swindlehurst,  Xiaohu You,  Chunming Zhao
备注:  Accepted by 2023 IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2312.16814
Abstract:In this paper, we consider the physical layer security of an RIS-assisted multiple-antenna communication system with randomly located eavesdroppers. The exact distributions of the received signal-to-noise-ratios (SNRs) at the legitimate user and the eavesdroppers located according to a Poisson point process (PPP) are derived, and a closed-form expression for the secrecy outage probability (SOP) is obtained. It is revealed that the secrecy performance is mainly affected by the number of RIS reflecting elements, and the impact of the transmit antennas and transmit power at the base station is marginal. In addition, when the locations of the randomly located eavesdroppers are unknown, deploying the RIS closer to the legitimate user rather than to the base station is shown to be more efficient. We also perform an analytical study demonstrating that the secrecy diversity order depends on the path loss exponent of the RIS-to-ground links. Finally, numerical simulations are conducted to verify the accuracy of these theoretical observations.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [242]
标题:  Defying Imbalanced Forgetting in Class Incremental Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14910
作者:  Shixiong Xu,  Gaofeng Meng,  Xing Nie,  Bolin Ni,  Bin Fan,  Shiming Xiang
备注:  AAAI2024
Abstract:We observe a high level of imbalance in the accuracy of different classes in the same old task for the first time. This intriguing phenomenon, discovered in replay-based Class Incremental Learning (CIL), highlights the imbalanced forgetting of learned classes, as their accuracy is similar before the occurrence of catastrophic forgetting. This discovery remains previously unidentified due to the reliance on average incremental accuracy as the measurement for CIL, which assumes that the accuracy of classes within the same task is similar. However, this assumption is invalid in the face of catastrophic forgetting. Further empirical studies indicate that this imbalanced forgetting is caused by conflicts in representation between semantically similar old and new classes. These conflicts are rooted in the data imbalance present in replay-based CIL methods. Building on these insights, we propose CLass-Aware Disentanglement (CLAD) to predict the old classes that are more likely to be forgotten and enhance their accuracy. Importantly, CLAD can be seamlessly integrated into existing CIL methods. Extensive experiments demonstrate that CLAD consistently improves current replay-based methods, resulting in performance gains of up to 2.56%.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [243]
标题:  Modeling Distributed Computing Infrastructures for HEP Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14903
作者:  Maximilian Horzela,  Henri Casanova,  Manuel Giffels,  Artur Gottmann,  Robin Hofsaess,  Günter Quast,  Simone Rossi Tisbeni,  Achim Streit,  Frédéric Suter
备注:  To appear in Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Computing in High Energy & Nuclear Physics (CHEP2023)
Abstract:Predicting the performance of various infrastructure design options in complex federated infrastructures with computing sites distributed over a wide area network that support a plethora of users and workflows, such as the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid (WLCG), is not trivial. Due to the complexity and size of these infrastructures, it is not feasible to deploy experimental test-beds at large scales merely for the purpose of comparing and evaluating alternate designs. An alternative is to study the behaviours of these systems using simulation. This approach has been used successfully in the past to identify efficient and practical infrastructure designs for High Energy Physics (HEP). A prominent example is the Monarc simulation framework, which was used to study the initial structure of the WLCG. New simulation capabilities are needed to simulate large-scale heterogeneous computing systems with complex networks, data access and caching patterns. A modern tool to simulate HEP workloads that execute on distributed computing infrastructures based on the SimGrid and WRENCH simulation frameworks is outlined. Studies of its accuracy and scalability are presented using HEP as a case-study. Hypothetical adjustments to prevailing computing architectures in HEP are studied providing insights into the dynamics of a part of the WLCG and candidates for improvements.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)

**编号**: [244]
标题:  Hydro: Adaptive Query Processing of ML Queries
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14902
作者:  Gaurav Tarlok Kakkar,  Jiashen Cao,  Aubhro Sengupta,  Joy Arulraj,  Hyesoon Kim
备注:  
Abstract:Query optimization in relational database management systems (DBMSs) is critical for fast query processing. The query optimizer relies on precise selectivity and cost estimates to effectively optimize queries prior to execution. While this strategy is effective for relational DBMSs, it is not sufficient for DBMSs tailored for processing machine learning (ML) queries. In ML-centric DBMSs, query optimization is challenging for two reasons. First, the performance bottleneck of the queries shifts to user-defined functions (UDFs) that often wrap around deep learning models, making it difficult to accurately estimate UDF statistics without profiling the query. This leads to inaccurate statistics and sub-optimal query plans. Second, the optimal query plan for ML queries is data-dependent, necessitating DBMSs to adapt the query plan on the fly during execution. So, a static query plan is not sufficient for such queries. In this paper, we present Hydro, an ML-centric DBMS that utilizes adaptive query processing (AQP) for efficiently processing ML queries. Hydro is designed to quickly evaluate UDF-based query predicates by ensuring optimal predicate evaluation order and improving the scalability of UDF execution. By integrating AQP, Hydro continuously monitors UDF statistics, routes data to predicates in an optimal order, and dynamically allocates resources for evaluating predicates. We demonstrate Hydro's efficacy through four illustrative use cases, delivering up to 11.52x speedup over a baseline system.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [245]
标题:  Web-based Melanoma Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14898
作者:  SangHyuk Kim,  Edward Gaibor,  Daniel Haehn
备注:  10 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Melanoma is the most aggressive form of skin cancer, and early detection can significantly increase survival rates and prevent cancer spread. However, developing reliable automated detection techniques is difficult due to the lack of standardized datasets and evaluation methods. This study introduces a unified melanoma classification approach that supports 54 combinations of 11 datasets and 24 state-of-the-art deep learning architectures. It enables a fair comparison of 1,296 experiments and results in a lightweight model deployable to the web-based MeshNet architecture named Mela-D. This approach can run up to 33x faster by reducing parameters 24x to yield an analogous 88.8\% accuracy comparable with ResNet50 on previously unseen images. This allows efficient and accurate melanoma detection in real-world settings that can run on consumer-level hardware.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [246]
标题:  Geometric Generative Models based on Morphological Equivariant PDEs and  GANs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14897
作者:  El Hadji S. Diop,  Thierno Fall,  Alioune Mbengue,  Mohamed Daoudi
备注:  
Abstract:Content and image generation consist in creating or generating data from noisy information by extracting specific features such as texture, edges, and other thin image structures. We are interested here in generative models, and two main problems are addressed. Firstly, the improvements of specific feature extraction while accounting at multiscale levels intrinsic geometric features; and secondly, the equivariance of the network to reduce its complexity and provide a geometric interpretability. To proceed, we propose a geometric generative model based on an equivariant partial differential equation (PDE) for group convolution neural networks (G-CNNs), so called PDE-G-CNNs, built on morphology operators and generative adversarial networks (GANs). Equivariant morphological PDE layers are composed of multiscale dilations and erosions formulated in Riemannian manifolds, while group symmetries are defined on a Lie group. We take advantage of the Lie group structure to properly integrate the equivariance in layers, and are able to use the Riemannian metric to solve the multiscale morphological operations. Each point of the Lie group is associated with a unique point in the manifold, which helps us derive a metric on the Riemannian manifold from a tensor field invariant under the Lie group so that the induced metric has the same symmetries. The proposed geometric morphological GAN (GM-GAN) is obtained by using the proposed morphological equivariant convolutions in PDE-G-CNNs to bring nonlinearity in classical CNNs. GM-GAN is evaluated on MNIST data and compared with GANs. Preliminary results show that GM-GAN model outperforms classical GAN.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Differential Geometry (math.DG)

**编号**: [247]
标题:  Investigating Bias in LLM-Based Bias Detection: Disparities between LLMs  and Human Perception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14896
作者:  Luyang Lin,  Lingzhi Wang,  Jinsong Guo,  Kam-Fai Wong
备注:  
Abstract:The pervasive spread of misinformation and disinformation in social media underscores the critical importance of detecting media bias. While robust Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as foundational tools for bias prediction, concerns about inherent biases within these models persist. In this work, we investigate the presence and nature of bias within LLMs and its consequential impact on media bias detection. Departing from conventional approaches that focus solely on bias detection in media content, we delve into biases within the LLM systems themselves. Through meticulous examination, we probe whether LLMs exhibit biases, particularly in political bias prediction and text continuation tasks. Additionally, we explore bias across diverse topics, aiming to uncover nuanced variations in bias expression within the LLM framework. Importantly, we propose debiasing strategies, including prompt engineering and model fine-tuning. Extensive analysis of bias tendencies across different LLMs sheds light on the broader landscape of bias propagation in language models. This study advances our understanding of LLM bias, offering critical insights into its implications for bias detection tasks and paving the way for more robust and equitable AI systems
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [248]
标题:  Stance Reasoner: Zero-Shot Stance Detection on Social Media with  Explicit Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14895
作者:  Maksym Taranukhin,  Vered Shwartz,  Evangelos Milios
备注:  Accepted to COLING 2024
Abstract:Social media platforms are rich sources of opinionated content. Stance detection allows the automatic extraction of users' opinions on various topics from such content. We focus on zero-shot stance detection, where the model's success relies on (a) having knowledge about the target topic; and (b) learning general reasoning strategies that can be employed for new topics. We present Stance Reasoner, an approach to zero-shot stance detection on social media that leverages explicit reasoning over background knowledge to guide the model's inference about the document's stance on a target. Specifically, our method uses a pre-trained language model as a source of world knowledge, with the chain-of-thought in-context learning approach to generate intermediate reasoning steps. Stance Reasoner outperforms the current state-of-the-art models on 3 Twitter datasets, including fully supervised models. It can better generalize across targets, while at the same time providing explicit and interpretable explanations for its predictions.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [249]
标题:  Unraveling Contagion Origins: Optimal Estimation through  Maximum-Likelihood and Starlike Tree Approximation in Markovian Spreading  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14890
作者:  Pei-Duo Yu,  Chee Wei Tan,  Liang Zheng,  Chao Zhao
备注:  
Abstract:Identifying the source of epidemic-like spread in networks is crucial for tasks like removing internet viruses or finding the rumor source in online social networks. The challenge lies in tracing the source from a snapshot observation of infected nodes. How do we accurately pinpoint the source? Utilizing snapshot data, we apply a probabilistic approach, focusing on the graph boundary and the observed time, to detect sources via an effective maximum likelihood algorithm. A novel starlike tree approximation extends applicability to general graphs, demonstrating versatility. We highlight the utility of the Gamma function for analyzing the asymptotic behavior of the likelihood ratio between nodes. Comprehensive evaluations confirm algorithmic effectiveness in diverse network scenarios, advancing rumor source detection in large-scale network analysis and information dissemination strategies.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [250]
标题:  AutoRE: Document-Level Relation Extraction with Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14888
作者:  Xue Lilong,  Zhang Dan,  Dong Yuxiao,  Tang Jie
备注:  11 pages
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional abilities in comprehending and generating text, motivating numerous researchers to utilize them for Information Extraction (IE) purposes, including Relation Extraction (RE). Nonetheless, most existing methods are predominantly designed for Sentence-level Relation Extraction (SentRE) tasks, which typically encompass a restricted set of relations and triplet facts within a single sentence. Furthermore, certain approaches resort to treating relations as candidate choices integrated into prompt templates, leading to inefficient processing and suboptimal performance when tackling Document-Level Relation Extraction (DocRE) tasks, which entail handling multiple relations and triplet facts distributed across a given document, posing distinct challenges. To overcome these limitations, we introduce AutoRE, an end-to-end DocRE model that adopts a novel RE extraction paradigm named RHF (Relation-Head-Facts). Unlike existing approaches, AutoRE does not rely on the assumption of known relation options, making it more reflective of real-world scenarios. Additionally, we have developed an easily extensible RE framework using a Parameters Efficient Fine Tuning (PEFT) algorithm (QLoRA). Our experiments on the RE-DocRED dataset showcase AutoRE's best performance, achieving state-of-the-art results, surpassing TAG by 10.03% and 9.03% respectively on the dev and test set.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [251]
标题:  GelLink: A Compact Multi-phalanx Finger with Vision-based Tactile  Sensing and Proprioception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14887
作者:  Yuxiang Ma,  Jialiang (Alan) Zhao,  Edward Adelson
备注:  Supplement video: this https URL . 7 pages, 9 figures. ICRA 2024 (IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation)
Abstract:Compared to fully-actuated robotic end-effectors, underactuated ones are generally more adaptive, robust, and cost-effective. However, state estimation for underactuated hands is usually more challenging. Vision-based tactile sensors, like Gelsight, can mitigate this issue by providing high-resolution tactile sensing and accurate proprioceptive sensing. As such, we present GelLink, a compact, underactuated, linkage-driven robotic finger with low-cost, high-resolution vision-based tactile sensing and proprioceptive sensing capabilities. In order to reduce the amount of embedded hardware, i.e. the cameras and motors, we optimize the linkage transmission with a planar linkage mechanism simulator and develop a planar reflection simulator to simplify the tactile sensing hardware. As a result, GelLink only requires one motor to actuate the three phalanges, and one camera to capture tactile signals along the entire finger. Overall, GelLink is a compact robotic finger that shows adaptability and robustness when performing grasping tasks. The integration of vision-based tactile sensors can significantly enhance the capabilities of underactuated fingers and potentially broaden their future usage.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [252]
标题:  DSGG: Dense Relation Transformer for an End-to-end Scene Graph  Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14886
作者:  Zeeshan Hayder,  Xuming He
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:Scene graph generation aims to capture detailed spatial and semantic relationships between objects in an image, which is challenging due to incomplete labelling, long-tailed relationship categories, and relational semantic overlap. Existing Transformer-based methods either employ distinct queries for objects and predicates or utilize holistic queries for relation triplets and hence often suffer from limited capacity in learning low-frequency relationships. In this paper, we present a new Transformer-based method, called DSGG, that views scene graph detection as a direct graph prediction problem based on a unique set of graph-aware queries. In particular, each graph-aware query encodes a compact representation of both the node and all of its relations in the graph, acquired through the utilization of a relaxed sub-graph matching during the training process. Moreover, to address the problem of relational semantic overlap, we utilize a strategy for relation distillation, aiming to efficiently learn multiple instances of semantic relationships. Extensive experiments on the VG and the PSG datasets show that our model achieves state-of-the-art results, showing a significant improvement of 3.5\% and 6.7\% in mR@50 and mR@100 for the scene-graph generation task and achieves an even more substantial improvement of 8.5\% and 10.3\% in mR@50 and mR@100 for the panoptic scene graph generation task. Code is available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [253]
标题:  Establishing a leader in a pairwise comparisons method
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14885
作者:  Jacek Szybowski,  Konrad Kułakowski,  Jiri Mazurek,  Sebastian Ernst
备注:  9 figures, 19 pages
Abstract:Abstract Like electoral systems, decision-making methods are also vulnerable to manipulation by decision-makers. The ability to effectively defend against such threats can only come from thoroughly understanding the manipulation mechanisms. In the presented article, we show two algorithms that can be used to launch a manipulation attack. They allow for equating the weights of two selected alternatives in the pairwise comparison method and, consequently, choosing a leader. The theoretical considerations are accompanied by a Monte Carlo simulation showing the relationship between the size of the PC matrix, the degree of inconsistency, and the ease of manipulation. This work is a continuation of our previous research published in the paper (Szybowski et al., 2023)
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [254]
标题:  PECR: A formal system based on computability logic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14880
作者:  G. Pantelis
备注:  
Abstract:PECR is a formal system designed to explore the properties of computability of programs on a real-world computer. As such PECR incorporates the finite resources of the machine upon which a program is to be executed. The main features of the formal system will be presented and its practical applications will be discussed. Of particular interest is the implementation of the formal system to the exploration of the laws of nature that lead to rigorous constructions of computer models of real-world phenomena.
Subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [255]
标题:  Learning to Change: Choreographing Mixed Traffic Through Lateral Control  and Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14879
作者:  Dawei Wang,  Weizi Li,  Lei Zhu,  Jia Pan
备注:  
Abstract:The management of mixed traffic that consists of robot vehicles (RVs) and human-driven vehicles (HVs) at complex intersections presents a multifaceted challenge. Traditional signal controls often struggle to adapt to dynamic traffic conditions and heterogeneous vehicle types. Recent advancements have turned to strategies based on reinforcement learning (RL), leveraging its model-free nature, real-time operation, and generalizability over different scenarios. We introduce a hierarchical RL framework to manage mixed traffic through precise longitudinal and lateral control of RVs. Our proposed hierarchical framework combines the state-of-the-art mixed traffic control algorithm as a high level decision maker to improve the performance and robustness of the whole system. Our experiments demonstrate that the framework can reduce the average waiting time by up to 54% compared to the state-of-the-art mixed traffic control method. When the RV penetration rate exceeds 60%, our technique consistently outperforms conventional traffic signal control programs in terms of the average waiting time for all vehicles at the intersection.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [256]
标题:  TEeVTOL: Balancing Energy and Time Efficiency in eVTOL Aircraft Path  Planning Across City-Scale Wind Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14877
作者:  Songyang Liu,  Shuai Li,  Haochen Li,  Weizi Li,  Jindong Tan
备注:  
Abstract:Electric vertical-takeoff and landing (eVTOL) aircraft, recognized for their maneuverability and flexibility, offer a promising alternative to our transportation system. However, the operational effectiveness of these aircraft faces many challenges, such as the delicate balance between energy and time efficiency, stemming from unpredictable environmental factors, including wind fields. Mathematical modeling-based approaches have been adopted to plan aircraft flight path in urban wind fields with the goal to save energy and time costs. While effective, they are limited in adapting to dynamic and complex environments. To optimize energy and time efficiency in eVTOL's flight through dynamic wind fields, we introduce a novel path planning method leveraging deep reinforcement learning. We assess our method with extensive experiments, comparing it to Dijkstra's algorithm -- the theoretically optimal approach for determining shortest paths in a weighted graph, where weights represent either energy or time cost. The results show that our method achieves a graceful balance between energy and time efficiency, closely resembling the theoretically optimal values for both objectives.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [257]
标题:  WeatherProof: Leveraging Language Guidance for Semantic Segmentation in  Adverse Weather
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14874
作者:  Blake Gella,  Howard Zhang,  Rishi Upadhyay,  Tiffany Chang,  Nathan Wei,  Matthew Waliman,  Yunhao Bao,  Celso de Melo,  Alex Wong,  Achuta Kadambi
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2312.09534
Abstract:We propose a method to infer semantic segmentation maps from images captured under adverse weather conditions. We begin by examining existing models on images degraded by weather conditions such as rain, fog, or snow, and found that they exhibit a large performance drop as compared to those captured under clear weather. To control for changes in scene structures, we propose WeatherProof, the first semantic segmentation dataset with accurate clear and adverse weather image pairs that share an underlying scene. Through this dataset, we analyze the error modes in existing models and found that they were sensitive to the highly complex combination of different weather effects induced on the image during capture. To improve robustness, we propose a way to use language as guidance by identifying contributions of adverse weather conditions and injecting that as "side information". Models trained using our language guidance exhibit performance gains by up to 10.2% in mIoU on WeatherProof, up to 8.44% in mIoU on the widely used ACDC dataset compared to standard training techniques, and up to 6.21% in mIoU on the ACDC dataset as compared to previous SOTA methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [258]
标题:  Structuring the Chaos: Enabling Small Business Cyber-Security Risks &  Assets Modelling with a UML Class Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14872
作者:  Tracy Tam,  Asha Rao,  Joanne Hall
备注:  
Abstract:Small businesses are increasingly adopting IT, and consequently becoming more vulnerable to cyber-incidents. Whilst small businesses are aware of the cyber-security risks, many struggle with implementing mitigations. Some of these can be traced to fundamental differences in the characteristics of small business versus large enterprises where modern cyber-security solutions are widely deployed. Small business specific cyber-security tools are needed. Currently available cyber-security tools and standards assume technical expertise and time resources often not practical for small businesses. Cyber-security competes with other roles that small business owners take on, e.g. cleaning, sales etc. A small business model, salient and implementable at-scale, with simplified non-specialist terminologies and presentation is needed to encourage sustained participation of all stakeholders, not just technical ones. We propose a new UML class (Small IT Data (SITD)) model to support the often chaotic information-gathering phase of a small business' first foray into cyber-security. The SITD model is designed in the UML format to help small business implement technical solutions. The SITD model structure stays relevant by using generic classes and structures that evolve with technology and environmental changes. The SITD model keeps security decisions proportionate to the business by highlighting relationships between business strategy tasks and IT infrastructure. We construct a set of design principles to address small business cyber-security needs. Model components are designed in response to these needs. The uses of the SITD model are then demonstrated and design principles validated by examining a case study of a real small business operational and IT information. The SITD model's ability to illustrate breach information is also demonstrated using the NotPetya incident.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [259]
标题:  VidLA: Video-Language Alignment at Scale
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14870
作者:  Mamshad Nayeem Rizve,  Fan Fei,  Jayakrishnan Unnikrishnan,  Son Tran,  Benjamin Z. Yao,  Belinda Zeng,  Mubarak Shah,  Trishul Chilimbi
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:In this paper, we propose VidLA, an approach for video-language alignment at scale. There are two major limitations of previous video-language alignment approaches. First, they do not capture both short-range and long-range temporal dependencies and typically employ complex hierarchical deep network architectures that are hard to integrate with existing pretrained image-text foundation models. To effectively address this limitation, we instead keep the network architecture simple and use a set of data tokens that operate at different temporal resolutions in a hierarchical manner, accounting for the temporally hierarchical nature of videos. By employing a simple two-tower architecture, we are able to initialize our video-language model with pretrained image-text foundation models, thereby boosting the final performance. Second, existing video-language alignment works struggle due to the lack of semantically aligned large-scale training data. To overcome it, we leverage recent LLMs to curate the largest video-language dataset to date with better visual grounding. Furthermore, unlike existing video-text datasets which only contain short clips, our dataset is enriched with video clips of varying durations to aid our temporally hierarchical data tokens in extracting better representations at varying temporal scales. Overall, empirical results show that our proposed approach surpasses state-of-the-art methods on multiple retrieval benchmarks, especially on longer videos, and performs competitively on classification benchmarks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [260]
标题:  Learning Quadruped Locomotion Using Differentiable Simulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14864
作者:  Yunlong Song,  Sangbae Kim,  Davide Scaramuzza
备注:  
Abstract:While most recent advancements in legged robot control have been driven by model-free reinforcement learning, we explore the potential of differentiable simulation. Differentiable simulation promises faster convergence and more stable training by computing low-variant first-order gradients using the robot model, but so far, its use for legged robot control has remained limited to simulation. The main challenge with differentiable simulation lies in the complex optimization landscape of robotic tasks due to discontinuities in contact-rich environments, e.g., quadruped locomotion. This work proposes a new, differentiable simulation framework to overcome these challenges. The key idea involves decoupling the complex whole-body simulation, which may exhibit discontinuities due to contact, into two separate continuous domains. Subsequently, we align the robot state resulting from the simplified model with a more precise, non-differentiable simulator to maintain sufficient simulation accuracy. Our framework enables learning quadruped walking in minutes using a single simulated robot without any parallelization. When augmented with GPU parallelization, our approach allows the quadruped robot to master diverse locomotion skills, including trot, pace, bound, and gallop, on challenging terrains in minutes. Additionally, our policy achieves robust locomotion performance in the real world zero-shot. To the best of our knowledge, this work represents the first demonstration of using differentiable simulation for controlling a real quadruped robot. This work provides several important insights into using differentiable simulations for legged locomotion in the real world.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [261]
标题:  Robust Model Based Reinforcement Learning Using $\mathcal{L}_1$ Adaptive  Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14860
作者:  Minjun Sung,  Sambhu H. Karumanchi,  Aditya Gahlawat,  Naira Hovakimyan
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce $\mathcal{L}_1$-MBRL, a control-theoretic augmentation scheme for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning (MBRL) algorithms. Unlike model-free approaches, MBRL algorithms learn a model of the transition function using data and use it to design a control input. Our approach generates a series of approximate control-affine models of the learned transition function according to the proposed switching law. Using the approximate model, control input produced by the underlying MBRL is perturbed by the $\mathcal{L}_1$ adaptive control, which is designed to enhance the robustness of the system against uncertainties. Importantly, this approach is agnostic to the choice of MBRL algorithm, enabling the use of the scheme with various MBRL algorithms. MBRL algorithms with $\mathcal{L}_1$ augmentation exhibit enhanced performance and sample efficiency across multiple MuJoCo environments, outperforming the original MBRL algorithms, both with and without system noise.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [262]
标题:  Comparing Plausibility Estimates in Base and Instruction-Tuned Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14859
作者:  Carina Kauf,  Emmanuele Chersoni,  Alessandro Lenci,  Evelina Fedorenko,  Anna A. Ivanova
备注:  
Abstract:Instruction-tuned LLMs can respond to explicit queries formulated as prompts, which greatly facilitates interaction with human users. However, prompt-based approaches might not always be able to tap into the wealth of implicit knowledge acquired by LLMs during pre-training. This paper presents a comprehensive study of ways to evaluate semantic plausibility in LLMs. We compare base and instruction-tuned LLM performance on an English sentence plausibility task via (a) explicit prompting and (b) implicit estimation via direct readout of the probabilities models assign to strings. Experiment 1 shows that, across model architectures and plausibility datasets, (i) log likelihood ($\textit{LL}$) scores are the most reliable indicator of sentence plausibility, with zero-shot prompting yielding inconsistent and typically poor results; (ii) $\textit{LL}$-based performance is still inferior to human performance; (iii) instruction-tuned models have worse $\textit{LL}$-based performance than base models. In Experiment 2, we show that $\textit{LL}$ scores across models are modulated by context in the expected way, showing high performance on three metrics of context-sensitive plausibility and providing a direct match to explicit human plausibility judgments. Overall, $\textit{LL}$ estimates remain a more reliable measure of plausibility in LLMs than direct prompting.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [263]
标题:  Blockchain e Sistemas Distribuídos: conceitos básicos e  implicações
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14854
作者:  M. Witter,  A. Rodrigo De Vit
备注:  in Portuguese language
Abstract:Blockchain technology has emerged as a necessity for the decentralization of payment methods and transactions, but it has brought with it many properties of distributed systems that have made it a crucial technology for overcoming some of society's challenges, especially in the context of decentralizing services, transparency of information, availability, and security. Its architecture and communication methods, although possessing some complex nuances to understand, particularly for the lay audience in the field of distributed systems, protocols, and computer networks. In this article, we will explore some topics of distributed systems related to blockchain technology.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [264]
标题:  iSpLib: A Library for Accelerating Graph Neural Networks using  Auto-tuned Sparse Operations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14853
作者:  Md Saidul Hoque Anik,  Pranav Badhe,  Rohit Gampa,  Ariful Azad
备注:  
Abstract:Core computations in Graph Neural Network (GNN) training and inference are often mapped to sparse matrix operations such as sparse-dense matrix multiplication (SpMM). These sparse operations are harder to optimize by manual tuning because their performance depends significantly on the sparsity of input graphs, GNN models, and computing platforms. To address this challenge, we present iSpLib, a PyTorch-based C++ library equipped with auto-tuned sparse operations. iSpLib expedites GNN training with a cache-enabled backpropagation that stores intermediate matrices in local caches. The library offers a user-friendly Python plug-in that allows users to take advantage of our optimized PyTorch operations out-of-the-box for any existing linear algebra-based PyTorch implementation of popular GNNs (Graph Convolution Network, GraphSAGE, Graph Inference Network, etc.) with only two lines of additional code. We demonstrate that iSpLib obtains up to 27x overall training speedup compared to the equivalent PyTorch 2.1.0 and PyTorch Geometric 2.4.0 implementations on the CPU. Our library is publicly available at this https URL (this https URL).
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Performance (cs.PF)

**编号**: [265]
标题:  KeyPoint Relative Position Encoding for Face Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14852
作者:  Minchul Kim,  Yiyang Su,  Feng Liu,  Anil Jain,  Xiaoming Liu
备注:  To appear in CVPR2024
Abstract:In this paper, we address the challenge of making ViT models more robust to unseen affine transformations. Such robustness becomes useful in various recognition tasks such as face recognition when image alignment failures occur. We propose a novel method called KP-RPE, which leverages key points (e.g.~facial landmarks) to make ViT more resilient to scale, translation, and pose variations. We begin with the observation that Relative Position Encoding (RPE) is a good way to bring affine transform generalization to ViTs. RPE, however, can only inject the model with prior knowledge that nearby pixels are more important than far pixels. Keypoint RPE (KP-RPE) is an extension of this principle, where the significance of pixels is not solely dictated by their proximity but also by their relative positions to specific keypoints within the image. By anchoring the significance of pixels around keypoints, the model can more effectively retain spatial relationships, even when those relationships are disrupted by affine transformations. We show the merit of KP-RPE in face and gait recognition. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness in improving face recognition performance from low-quality images, particularly where alignment is prone to failure. Code and pre-trained models are available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [266]
标题:  Output-Constrained Lossy Source Coding With Application to  Rate-Distortion-Perception Theory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14849
作者:  Li Xie,  Liangyan Li,  Jun Chen,  Zhongshan Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The distortion-rate function of output-constrained lossy source coding with limited common randomness is analyzed for the special case of squared error distortion measure. An explicit expression is obtained when both source and reconstruction distributions are Gaussian. This further leads to a partial characterization of the information-theoretic limit of quadratic Gaussian rate-distortion-perception coding with the perception measure given by Kullback-Leibler divergence or squared quadratic Wasserstein distance.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [267]
标题:  Learning WENO for entropy stable schemes to solve conservation laws
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14848
作者:  Philip Charles,  Deep Ray
备注:  38 pages, 16 figures, 5 tables
Abstract:Entropy conditions play a crucial role in the extraction of a physically relevant solution for a system of conservation laws, thus motivating the construction of entropy stable schemes that satisfy a discrete analogue of such conditions. TeCNO schemes (Fjordholm et al. 2012) form a class of arbitrary high-order entropy stable finite difference solvers, which require specialized reconstruction algorithms satisfying the sign property at each cell interface. Recently, third-order WENO schemes called SP-WENO (Fjordholm and Ray, 2016) and SP-WENOc (Ray, 2018) have been designed to satisfy the sign property. However, these WENO algorithms can perform poorly near shocks, with the numerical solutions exhibiting large spurious oscillations. In the present work, we propose a variant of the SP-WENO, termed as Deep Sign-Preserving WENO (DSP-WENO), where a neural network is trained to learn the WENO weighting strategy. The sign property and third-order accuracy are strongly imposed in the algorithm, which constrains the WENO weight selection region to a convex polygon. Thereafter, a neural network is trained to select the WENO weights from this convex region with the goal of improving the shock-capturing capabilities without sacrificing the rate of convergence in smooth regions. The proposed synergistic approach retains the mathematical framework of the TeCNO scheme while integrating deep learning to remedy the computational issues of the WENO-based reconstruction. We present several numerical experiments to demonstrate the significant improvement with DSP-WENO over the existing variants of WENO satisfying the sign property.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [268]
标题:  Extrapolating Solution Paths of Polynomial Homotopies towards  Singularities with PHCpack and phcpy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14844
作者:  Jan Verschelde,  Kylash Viswanathan
备注:  
Abstract:A robust path tracker [Telen, Van Barel, Verschelde, SISC 2020] computes the radius of convergence of Newton's method, estimates the distance to the nearest path, and then applies Padé approximants to predict the next point on the path. Apriori step size control is less sensitive to finely tuned tolerances than aposteriori step size control, and is therefore robust. Extrapolation methods are effective to accurately locate the singular points at the end of solution paths, as illustrated with phcpy, the scripting interface to PHCpack.
Subjects: Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Complex Variables (math.CV); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [269]
标题:  Local Causal Discovery with Linear non-Gaussian Cyclic Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14843
作者:  Haoyue Dai,  Ignavier Ng,  Yujia Zheng,  Zhengqing Gao,  Kun Zhang
备注:  Appears at AISTATS 2024
Abstract:Local causal discovery is of great practical significance, as there are often situations where the discovery of the global causal structure is unnecessary, and the interest lies solely on a single target variable. Most existing local methods utilize conditional independence relations, providing only a partially directed graph, and assume acyclicity for the ground-truth structure, even though real-world scenarios often involve cycles like feedback mechanisms. In this work, we present a general, unified local causal discovery method with linear non-Gaussian models, whether they are cyclic or acyclic. We extend the application of independent component analysis from the global context to independent subspace analysis, enabling the exact identification of the equivalent local directed structures and causal strengths from the Markov blanket of the target variable. We also propose an alternative regression-based method in the particular acyclic scenarios. Our identifiability results are empirically validated using both synthetic and real-world datasets.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [270]
标题:  TAMS: Translation-Assisted Morphological Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14840
作者:  Enora Rice,  Ali Marashian,  Luke Gessler,  Alexis Palmer,  Katharina von der Wense
备注:  Submitted to ACL ARR on December 15th 2023
Abstract:Canonical morphological segmentation is the process of analyzing words into the standard (aka underlying) forms of their constituent morphemes. This is a core task in language documentation, and NLP systems have the potential to dramatically speed up this process. But in typical language documentation settings, training data for canonical morpheme segmentation is scarce, making it difficult to train high quality models. However, translation data is often much more abundant, and, in this work, we present a method that attempts to leverage this data in the canonical segmentation task. We propose a character-level sequence-to-sequence model that incorporates representations of translations obtained from pretrained high-resource monolingual language models as an additional signal. Our model outperforms the baseline in a super-low resource setting but yields mixed results on training splits with more data. While further work is needed to make translations useful in higher-resource settings, our model shows promise in severely resource-constrained settings.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [271]
标题:  Hyperspectral Neural Radiance Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14839
作者:  Gerry Chen,  Sunil Kumar Narayanan,  Thomas Gautier Ottou,  Benjamin Missaoui,  Harsh Muriki,  Cédric Pradalier,  Yongsheng Chen
备注:  Main paper: 15 pages + 2 pages references. Supplemental/Appendix: 6 pages
Abstract:Hyperspectral Imagery (HSI) has been used in many applications to non-destructively determine the material and/or chemical compositions of samples. There is growing interest in creating 3D hyperspectral reconstructions, which could provide both spatial and spectral information while also mitigating common HSI challenges such as non-Lambertian surfaces and translucent objects. However, traditional 3D reconstruction with HSI is difficult due to technological limitations of hyperspectral cameras. In recent years, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have seen widespread success in creating high quality volumetric 3D representations of scenes captured by a variety of camera models. Leveraging recent advances in NeRFs, we propose computing a hyperspectral 3D reconstruction in which every point in space and view direction is characterized by wavelength-dependent radiance and transmittance spectra. To evaluate our approach, a dataset containing nearly 2000 hyperspectral images across 8 scenes and 2 cameras was collected. We perform comparisons against traditional RGB NeRF baselines and apply ablation testing with alternative spectra representations. Finally, we demonstrate the potential of hyperspectral NeRFs for hyperspectral super-resolution and imaging sensor simulation. We show that our hyperspectral NeRF approach enables creating fast, accurate volumetric 3D hyperspectral scenes and enables several new applications and areas for future study.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [272]
标题:  An Analysis of the Preferences of Distribution Indicators in  Evolutionary Multi-Objective Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14838
作者:  Jesús Guillermo Falcón-Cardona,  Mahboubeh Nezhadmoghaddam,  Emilio Bernal-Zubieta
备注:  
Abstract:The distribution of objective vectors in a Pareto Front Approximation (PFA) is crucial for representing the associated manifold accurately. Distribution Indicators (DIs) assess the distribution of a PFA numerically, utilizing concepts like distance calculation, Biodiversity, Entropy, Potential Energy, or Clustering. Despite the diversity of DIs, their strengths and weaknesses across assessment scenarios are not well-understood. This paper introduces a taxonomy for classifying DIs, followed by a preference analysis of nine DIs, each representing a category in the taxonomy. Experimental results, considering various PFAs under controlled scenarios (loss of coverage, loss of uniformity, pathological distributions), reveal that some DIs can be misleading and need cautious use. Additionally, DIs based on Biodiversity and Potential Energy show promise for PFA evaluation and comparison of Multi-Objective Evolutionary Algorithms.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [273]
标题:  Osmosis: RGBD Diffusion Prior for Underwater Image Restoration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14837
作者:  Opher Bar Nathan,  Deborah Levy,  Tali Treibitz,  Dan Rosenbaum
备注:  
Abstract:Underwater image restoration is a challenging task because of strong water effects that increase dramatically with distance. This is worsened by lack of ground truth data of clean scenes without water. Diffusion priors have emerged as strong image restoration priors. However, they are often trained with a dataset of the desired restored output, which is not available in our case. To overcome this critical issue, we show how to leverage in-air images to train diffusion priors for underwater restoration. We also observe that only color data is insufficient, and augment the prior with a depth channel. We train an unconditional diffusion model prior on the joint space of color and depth, using standard RGBD datasets of natural outdoor scenes in air. Using this prior together with a novel guidance method based on the underwater image formation model, we generate posterior samples of clean images, removing the water effects. Even though our prior did not see any underwater images during training, our method outperforms state-of-the-art baselines for image restoration on very challenging scenes. Data, models and code are published in the project page.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [274]
标题:  Evaluating Panoramic 3D Estimation in Indoor Lighting Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14836
作者:  Zining Cheng,  Guanzhou Ji
备注:  Annual Modeling and Simulation Conference (ANNSIM), May 20-23, 2024, Washington D.C., USA
Abstract:This paper presents the use of panoramic 3D estimation in lighting simulation. Conventional lighting simulation necessitates detailed modeling as input, resulting in significant labor effort and time cost. The 3D layout estimation method directly takes a single panorama as input and generates a lighting simulation model with room geometry and window aperture. We evaluate the simulation results by comparing the luminance errors between on-site High Dynamic Range (HDR) photographs, 3D estimation model, and detailed model in panoramic representation and fisheye perspective. Given the selected scene, the results demonstrate the estimated room layout is reliable for lighting simulation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [275]
标题:  Model order reduction of deep structured state-space models: A  system-theoretic approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14833
作者:  Marco Forgione,  Manas Mejari,  Dario Piga
备注:  
Abstract:With a specific emphasis on control design objectives, achieving accurate system modeling with limited complexity is crucial in parametric system identification. The recently introduced deep structured state-space models (SSM), which feature linear dynamical blocks as key constituent components, offer high predictive performance. However, the learned representations often suffer from excessively large model orders, which render them unsuitable for control design purposes. The current paper addresses this challenge by means of system-theoretic model order reduction techniques that target the linear dynamical blocks of SSMs. We introduce two regularization terms which can be incorporated into the training loss for improved model order reduction. In particular, we consider modal $\ell_1$ and Hankel nuclear norm regularization to promote sparsity, allowing one to retain only the relevant states without sacrificing accuracy. The presented regularizers lead to advantages in terms of parsimonious representations and faster inference resulting from the reduced order models. The effectiveness of the proposed methodology is demonstrated using real-world ground vibration data from an aircraft.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [276]
标题:  Hyperbolic Secant representation of the logistic function: Application  to probabilistic Multiple Instance Learning for CT intracranial hemorrhage  detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14829
作者:  F. M. Castro-Macías,  P. Morales-Álvarez,  Y. Wu,  R. Molina,  A. K. Katsaggelos
备注:  48 pages, 12 figures, published in Artificial Intelligence Journal
Abstract:Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) is a weakly supervised paradigm that has been successfully applied to many different scientific areas and is particularly well suited to medical imaging. Probabilistic MIL methods, and more specifically Gaussian Processes (GPs), have achieved excellent results due to their high expressiveness and uncertainty quantification capabilities. One of the most successful GP-based MIL methods, VGPMIL, resorts to a variational bound to handle the intractability of the logistic function. Here, we formulate VGPMIL using Pólya-Gamma random variables. This approach yields the same variational posterior approximations as the original VGPMIL, which is a consequence of the two representations that the Hyperbolic Secant distribution admits. This leads us to propose a general GP-based MIL method that takes different forms by simply leveraging distributions other than the Hyperbolic Secant one. Using the Gamma distribution we arrive at a new approach that obtains competitive or superior predictive performance and efficiency. This is validated in a comprehensive experimental study including one synthetic MIL dataset, two well-known MIL benchmarks, and a real-world medical problem. We expect that this work provides useful ideas beyond MIL that can foster further research in the field.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [277]
标题:  Multimodal-Conditioned Latent Diffusion Models for Fashion Image Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14828
作者:  Alberto Baldrati,  Davide Morelli,  Marcella Cornia,  Marco Bertini,  Rita Cucchiara
备注:  
Abstract:Fashion illustration is a crucial medium for designers to convey their creative vision and transform design concepts into tangible representations that showcase the interplay between clothing and the human body. In the context of fashion design, computer vision techniques have the potential to enhance and streamline the design process. Departing from prior research primarily focused on virtual try-on, this paper tackles the task of multimodal-conditioned fashion image editing. Our approach aims to generate human-centric fashion images guided by multimodal prompts, including text, human body poses, garment sketches, and fabric textures. To address this problem, we propose extending latent diffusion models to incorporate these multiple modalities and modifying the structure of the denoising network, taking multimodal prompts as input. To condition the proposed architecture on fabric textures, we employ textual inversion techniques and let diverse cross-attention layers of the denoising network attend to textual and texture information, thus incorporating different granularity conditioning details. Given the lack of datasets for the task, we extend two existing fashion datasets, Dress Code and VITON-HD, with multimodal annotations. Experimental evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach in terms of realism and coherence concerning the provided multimodal inputs.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [278]
标题:  Learning Gaussian Representation for Eye Fixation Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14821
作者:  Peipei Song,  Jing Zhang,  Piotr Koniusz,  Nick Barnes
备注:  11 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:Existing eye fixation prediction methods perform the mapping from input images to the corresponding dense fixation maps generated from raw fixation points. However, due to the stochastic nature of human fixation, the generated dense fixation maps may be a less-than-ideal representation of human fixation. To provide a robust fixation model, we introduce Gaussian Representation for eye fixation modeling. Specifically, we propose to model the eye fixation map as a mixture of probability distributions, namely a Gaussian Mixture Model. In this new representation, we use several Gaussian distribution components as an alternative to the provided fixation map, which makes the model more robust to the randomness of fixation. Meanwhile, we design our framework upon some lightweight backbones to achieve real-time fixation prediction. Experimental results on three public fixation prediction datasets (SALICON, MIT1003, TORONTO) demonstrate that our method is fast and effective.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [279]
标题:  The opportunities and risks of large language models in mental health
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14814
作者:  Hannah R. Lawrence,  Renee A. Schneider,  Susan B. Rubin,  Maja J. Mataric,  Daniel J. McDuff,  Megan Jones Bell
备注:  12 pages, 2 tables, 4 figures
Abstract:Global rates of mental health concerns are rising and there is increasing realization that existing models of mental healthcare will not adequately expand to meet the demand. With the emergence of large language models (LLMs) has come great optimism regarding their promise to create novel, large-scale solutions to support mental health. Despite their nascence, LLMs have already been applied to mental health-related tasks. In this review, we summarize the extant literature on efforts to use LLMs to provide mental health education, assessment, and intervention and highlight key opportunities for positive impact in each area. We then highlight risks associated with LLMs application to mental health and encourage adoption of strategies to mitigate these risks. The urgent need for mental health support must be balanced with responsible development, testing, and deployment of mental health LLMs. Especially critical is ensuring that mental health LLMs are fine-tuned for mental health, enhance mental health equity, adhere to ethical standards, and that people, including those with lived experience with mental health concerns, are involved in all stages from development through deployment. Prioritizing these efforts will minimize potential harms to mental health and maximize the likelihood that LLMs will positively impact mental health globally.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [280]
标题:  A Collection of Pragmatic-Similarity Judgments over Spoken Dialog  Utterances
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14808
作者:  Nigel G. Ward,  Divette Marco
备注:  LREC 2024
Abstract:Automatic measures of similarity between utterances are invaluable for training speech synthesizers, evaluating machine translation, and assessing learner productions. While there exist measures for semantic similarity and prosodic similarity, there are as yet none for pragmatic similarity. To enable the training of such measures, we developed the first collection of human judgments of pragmatic similarity between utterance pairs. Each pair consisting of an utterance extracted from a recorded dialog and a re-enactment of that utterance. Re-enactments were done under various conditions designed to create a variety of degrees of similarity. Each pair was rated on a continuous scale by 6 to 9 judges. The average inter-judge correlation was as high as 0.72 for English and 0.66 for Spanish. We make this data available at this https URL .
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [281]
标题:  Photonic-Electronic Integrated Circuits for High-Performance Computing  and AI Accelerator
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14806
作者:  Shupeng Ning,  Hanqing Zhu,  Chenghao Feng,  Jiaqi Gu,  Zhixing Jiang,  Zhoufeng Ying,  Jason Midkiff,  Sourabh Jain,  May H. Hlaing,  David Z. Pan,  Ray T. Chen
备注:  
Abstract:In recent decades, the demand for computational power has surged, particularly with the rapid expansion of artificial intelligence (AI). As we navigate the post-Moore's law era, the limitations of traditional electrical digital computing, including process bottlenecks and power consumption issue, are propelling the search for alternative computing paradigms. Among various emerging technologies, integrated photonics stands out as a promising solution for the next generation of high-performance computing due to the inherent advantages of light, such as low latency, high bandwidth, and unique multiplexing techniques. Furthermore, the progress in photonic integrated circuits (PICs), which are equipped with abundant photoelectronic components, positions photonic-electronic integrated circuits as a viable solution for high-performance computing and as hardware AI accelerators. In this review, we survey recent advancements in both PIC-based digital and analog computing for AI, exploring the principal benefits and obstacles of implementation. Additionally, we propose a comprehensive analysis of photonic AI from the perspectives of hardware implementation, accelerator architecture, and software-hardware co-design. In the end, acknowledging the existing challenges, we underscore potential strategies for overcoming these issues and offer insights into the future drivers for optical computing.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Applied Physics (physics.app-ph); Optics (physics.optics)

**编号**: [282]
标题:  Transmission Benefits and Cost Allocation under Ambiguity
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14803
作者:  Han Shu,  Jacob Mays
备注:  32 pages, 7 figures, 7 tables
Abstract:Disputes over cost allocation can present a significant barrier to investment in shared infrastructure. While it may be desirable to allocate cost in a way that corresponds to expected benefits, investments in long-lived projects are made under conditions of substantial uncertainty. In the context of electricity transmission, uncertainty combined with the inherent complexity of power systems analysis prevents the calculation of an estimated distribution of benefits that is agreeable to all participants. To analyze aspects of the cost allocation problem, we construct a model for transmission and generation expansion planning under uncertainty, enabling the identification of transmission investments as well as the calculation of benefits for users of the network. Numerical tests confirm the potential for realized benefits at the participant level to differ significantly from ex ante estimates. Based on the model and numerical tests we discuss several issues, including 1) establishing a valid counterfactual against which to measure benefits, 2) allocating cost to new and incumbent generators vs. solely allocating to loads, 3) calculating benefits at the portfolio vs. the individual project level, 4) identifying losers in a surplus-enhancing transmission expansion, and 5) quantifying the divergence between cost allocation decisions made ex ante and benefits realized ex post.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [283]
标题:  Identifying Challenges in Designing, Developing and Evaluating Data  Visualizations for Large Displays
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14802
作者:  Mahsa Sinaei Hamed,  Pak Kwan,  Matthew Klich,  Jillian Aurisano,  Fateme Rajabiyazdi
备注:  2 pages, IEEE VIS 2023, Poster session
Abstract:With the growth of data sizes, visualizing them becomes more complex. Desktop displays are insufficient for presenting and collaborating on complex data visualizations. Large displays could provide the necessary space to demo or present complex data visualizations. However, designing and developing visualizations for such displays pose distinct challenges. Identifying these challenges is essential for researchers, designers, and developers in the field of data visualization. In this study, we aim to gain insights into the challenges encountered by designers and developers when creating data visualizations for large displays. We conducted a series of semi-structured interviews with experts who had experience in large displays and, through affinity diagramming, categorized the challenges.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [284]
标题:  Deep Active Learning: A Reality Check
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14800
作者:  Edrina Gashi,  Jiankang Deng,  Ismail Elezi
备注:  
Abstract:We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of state-of-the-art deep active learning methods. Surprisingly, under general settings, no single-model method decisively outperforms entropy-based active learning, and some even fall short of random sampling. We delve into overlooked aspects like starting budget, budget step, and pretraining's impact, revealing their significance in achieving superior results. Additionally, we extend our evaluation to other tasks, exploring the active learning effectiveness in combination with semi-supervised learning, and object detection. Our experiments provide valuable insights and concrete recommendations for future active learning studies. By uncovering the limitations of current methods and understanding the impact of different experimental settings, we aim to inspire more efficient training of deep learning models in real-world scenarios with limited annotation budgets. This work contributes to advancing active learning's efficacy in deep learning and empowers researchers to make informed decisions when applying active learning to their tasks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [285]
标题:  Preventing Catastrophic Forgetting through Memory Networks in Continuous  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14797
作者:  Gaurav Bhatt,  James Ross,  Leonid Sigal
备注:  
Abstract:Modern pre-trained architectures struggle to retain previous information while undergoing continuous fine-tuning on new tasks. Despite notable progress in continual classification, systems designed for complex vision tasks such as detection or segmentation still struggle to attain satisfactory performance. In this work, we introduce a memory-based detection transformer architecture to adapt a pre-trained DETR-style detector to new tasks while preserving knowledge from previous tasks. We propose a novel localized query function for efficient information retrieval from memory units, aiming to minimize forgetting. Furthermore, we identify a fundamental challenge in continual detection referred to as background relegation. This arises when object categories from earlier tasks reappear in future tasks, potentially without labels, leading them to be implicitly treated as background. This is an inevitable issue in continual detection or segmentation. The introduced continual optimization technique effectively tackles this challenge. Finally, we assess the performance of our proposed system on continual detection benchmarks and demonstrate that our approach surpasses the performance of existing state-of-the-art resulting in 5-7% improvements on MS-COCO and PASCAL-VOC on the task of continual detection.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [286]
标题:  Planning and Acting While the Clock Ticks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14796
作者:  Andrew Coles,  Erez Karpas,  Andrey Lavrinenko,  Wheeler Ruml,  Solomon Eyal Shimony,  Shahaf Shperberg
备注:  
Abstract:Standard temporal planning assumes that planning takes place offline and then execution starts at time 0. Recently, situated temporal planning was introduced, where planning starts at time 0 and execution occurs after planning terminates. Situated temporal planning reflects a more realistic scenario where time passes during planning. However, in situated temporal planning a complete plan must be generated before any action is executed. In some problems with time pressure, timing is too tight to complete planning before the first action must be executed. For example, an autonomous car that has a truck backing towards it should probably move out of the way now and plan how to get to its destination later. In this paper, we propose a new problem setting: concurrent planning and execution, in which actions can be dispatched (executed) before planning terminates. Unlike previous work on planning and execution, we must handle wall clock deadlines that affect action applicability and goal achievement (as in situated planning) while also supporting dispatching actions before a complete plan has been found. We extend previous work on metareasoning for situated temporal planning to develop an algorithm for this new setting. Our empirical evaluation shows that when there is strong time pressure, our approach outperforms situated temporal planning.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [287]
标题:  Advanced Deep Operator Networks to Predict Multiphysics Solution Fields  in Materials Processing and Additive Manufacturing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14795
作者:  Shashank Kushwaha,  Jaewan Park,  Seid Koric,  Junyan He,  Iwona Jasiuk,  Diab Abueidda
备注:  
Abstract:Unlike classical artificial neural networks, which require retraining for each new set of parametric inputs, the Deep Operator Network (DeepONet), a lately introduced deep learning framework, approximates linear and nonlinear solution operators by taking parametric functions (infinite-dimensional objects) as inputs and mapping them to complete solution fields. In this paper, two newly devised DeepONet formulations with sequential learning and Residual U-Net (ResUNet) architectures are trained for the first time to simultaneously predict complete thermal and mechanical solution fields under variable loading, loading histories, process parameters, and even variable geometries. Two real-world applications are demonstrated: 1- coupled thermo-mechanical analysis of steel continuous casting with multiple visco-plastic constitutive laws and 2- sequentially coupled direct energy deposition for additive manufacturing. Despite highly challenging spatially variable target stress distributions, DeepONets can infer reasonably accurate full-field temperature and stress solutions several orders of magnitude faster than traditional and highly optimized finite-element analysis (FEA), even when FEA simulations are run on the latest high-performance computing platforms. The proposed DeepONet model's ability to provide field predictions almost instantly for unseen input parameters opens the door for future preliminary evaluation and design optimization of these vital industrial processes.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [288]
标题:  CASPER: Carbon-Aware Scheduling and Provisioning for Distributed Web  Services
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14792
作者:  Abel Souza,  Shruti Jasoria,  Basundhara Chakrabarty,  Alexander Bridgwater,  Axel Lundberg,  Filip Skogh,  Ahmed Ali-Eldin,  David Irwin,  Prashant Shenoy
备注:  
Abstract:There has been a significant societal push towards sustainable practices, including in computing. Modern interactive workloads such as geo-distributed web-services exhibit various spatiotemporal and performance flexibility, enabling the possibility to adapt the location, time, and intensity of processing to align with the availability of renewable and low-carbon energy. An example is a web application hosted across multiple cloud regions, each with varying carbon intensity based on their local electricity mix. Distributed load-balancing enables the exploitation of low-carbon energy through load migration across regions, reducing web applications carbon footprint. In this paper, we present CASPER, a carbon-aware scheduling and provisioning system that primarily minimizes the carbon footprint of distributed web services while also respecting their Service Level Objectives (SLO). We formulate CASPER as an multi-objective optimization problem that considers both the variable carbon intensity and latency constraints of the network. Our evaluation reveals the significant potential of CASPER in achieving substantial reductions in carbon emissions. Compared to baseline methods, CASPER demonstrates improvements of up to 70% with no latency performance degradation.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Performance (cs.PF); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [289]
标题:  Particip-AI: A Democratic Surveying Framework for Anticipating Future AI  Use Cases, Harms and Benefits
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14791
作者:  Jimin Mun,  Liwei Jiang,  Jenny Liang,  Inyoung Cheong,  Nicole DeCario,  Yejin Choi,  Tadayoshi Kohno,  Maarten Sap
备注:  35 pages, 4 figures, 23 tables
Abstract:General purpose AI, such as ChatGPT, seems to have lowered the barriers for the public to use AI and harness its power. However, the governance and development of AI still remain in the hands of a few, and the pace of development is accelerating without proper assessment of risks. As a first step towards democratic governance and risk assessment of AI, we introduce Particip-AI, a framework to gather current and future AI use cases and their harms and benefits from non-expert public. Our framework allows us to study more nuanced and detailed public opinions on AI through collecting use cases, surfacing diverse harms through risk assessment under alternate scenarios (i.e., developing and not developing a use case), and illuminating tensions over AI development through making a concluding choice on its development. To showcase the promise of our framework towards guiding democratic AI, we gather responses from 295 demographically diverse participants. We find that participants' responses emphasize applications for personal life and society, contrasting with most current AI development's business focus. This shows the value of surfacing diverse harms that are complementary to expert assessments. Furthermore, we found that perceived impact of not developing use cases predicted participants' judgements of whether AI use cases should be developed, and highlighted lay users' concerns of techno-solutionism. We conclude with a discussion on how frameworks like Particip-AI can further guide democratic AI governance and regulation.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [290]
标题:  Latent Diffusion Models for Attribute-Preserving Image Anonymization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14790
作者:  Luca Piano,  Pietro Basci,  Fabrizio Lamberti,  Lia Morra
备注:  
Abstract:Generative techniques for image anonymization have great potential to generate datasets that protect the privacy of those depicted in the images, while achieving high data fidelity and utility. Existing methods have focused extensively on preserving facial attributes, but failed to embrace a more comprehensive perspective that considers the scene and background into the anonymization process. This paper presents, to the best of our knowledge, the first approach to image anonymization based on Latent Diffusion Models (LDMs). Every element of a scene is maintained to convey the same meaning, yet manipulated in a way that makes re-identification difficult. We propose two LDMs for this purpose: CAMOUFLaGE-Base exploits a combination of pre-trained ControlNets, and a new controlling mechanism designed to increase the distance between the real and anonymized images. CAMOFULaGE-Light is based on the Adapter technique, coupled with an encoding designed to efficiently represent the attributes of different persons in a scene. The former solution achieves superior performance on most metrics and benchmarks, while the latter cuts the inference time in half at the cost of fine-tuning a lightweight module. We show through extensive experimental comparison that the proposed method is competitive with the state-of-the-art concerning identity obfuscation whilst better preserving the original content of the image and tackling unresolved challenges that current solutions fail to address.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [291]
标题:  On the exploitation of DCT statistics for cropping detectors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14789
作者:  Claudio Vittorio Ragaglia,  Francesco Guarnera,  Sebastiano Battiato
备注:  8 pages, 3 figures, conference
Abstract:{The study of frequency components derived from Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) has been widely used in image analysis. In recent years it has been observed that significant information can be extrapolated from them about the lifecycle of the image, but no study has focused on the analysis between them and the source resolution of the image. In this work, we investigated a novel image resolution classifier that employs DCT statistics with the goal to detect the original resolution of images; in particular the insight was exploited to address the challenge of identifying cropped images. Training a Machine Learning (ML) classifier on entire images (not cropped), the generated model can leverage this information to detect cropping. The results demonstrate the classifier's reliability in distinguishing between cropped and not cropped images, providing a dependable estimation of their original resolution. This advancement has significant implications for image processing applications, including digital security, authenticity verification, and visual quality analysis, by offering a new tool for detecting image manipulations and enhancing qualitative image assessment. This work opens new perspectives in the field, with potential to transform image analysis and usage across multiple domains.}
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [292]
标题:  Geom-DeepONet: A Point-cloud-based Deep Operator Network for Field  Predictions on 3D Parameterized Geometries
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14788
作者:  Junyan He,  Seid Koric,  Diab Abueidda,  Ali Najafi,  Iwona Jasiuk
备注:  
Abstract:Modern digital engineering design process commonly involves expensive repeated simulations on varying three-dimensional (3D) geometries. The efficient prediction capability of neural networks (NNs) makes them a suitable surrogate to provide design insights. Nevertheless, few available NNs can handle solution prediction on varying 3D shapes. We present a novel deep operator network (DeepONet) variant called Geom-DeepONet, which encodes parameterized 3D geometries and predicts full-field solutions on an arbitrary number of nodes. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first attempt in the literature and is our primary novelty. In addition to expressing shapes using mesh coordinates, the signed distance function for each node is evaluated and used to augment the inputs to the trunk network of the Geom-DeepONet, thereby capturing both explicit and implicit representations of the 3D shapes. The powerful geometric encoding capability of a sinusoidal representation network (SIREN) is also exploited by replacing the classical feedforward neural networks in the trunk with SIREN. Additional data fusion between the branch and trunk networks is introduced by an element-wise product. A numerical benchmark was conducted to compare Geom-DeepONet to PointNet and vanilla DeepONet, where results show that our architecture trains fast with a small memory footprint and yields the most accurate results among the three with less than 2 MPa stress error. Results show a much lower generalization error of our architecture on unseen dissimilar designs than vanilla DeepONet. Once trained, the model can predict vector solutions, and speed can be over $10^5$ times faster than implicit finite element simulations for large meshes.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [293]
标题:  Multi-Agent VQA: Exploring Multi-Agent Foundation Models in Zero-Shot  Visual Question Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14783
作者:  Bowen Jiang,  Zhijun Zhuang,  Shreyas S. Shivakumar,  Dan Roth,  Camillo J. Taylor
备注:  A full version of the paper will be released soon. The codes are available at this https URL
Abstract:This work explores the zero-shot capabilities of foundation models in Visual Question Answering (VQA) tasks. We propose an adaptive multi-agent system, named Multi-Agent VQA, to overcome the limitations of foundation models in object detection and counting by using specialized agents as tools. Unlike existing approaches, our study focuses on the system's performance without fine-tuning it on specific VQA datasets, making it more practical and robust in the open world. We present preliminary experimental results under zero-shot scenarios and highlight some failure cases, offering new directions for future research.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [294]
标题:  Champ: Controllable and Consistent Human Image Animation with 3D  Parametric Guidance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14781
作者:  Shenhao Zhu,  Junming Leo Chen,  Zuozhuo Dai,  Yinghui Xu,  Xun Cao,  Yao Yao,  Hao Zhu,  Siyu Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:In this study, we introduce a methodology for human image animation by leveraging a 3D human parametric model within a latent diffusion framework to enhance shape alignment and motion guidance in curernt human generative techniques. The methodology utilizes the SMPL(Skinned Multi-Person Linear) model as the 3D human parametric model to establish a unified representation of body shape and pose. This facilitates the accurate capture of intricate human geometry and motion characteristics from source videos. Specifically, we incorporate rendered depth images, normal maps, and semantic maps obtained from SMPL sequences, alongside skeleton-based motion guidance, to enrich the conditions to the latent diffusion model with comprehensive 3D shape and detailed pose attributes. A multi-layer motion fusion module, integrating self-attention mechanisms, is employed to fuse the shape and motion latent representations in the spatial domain. By representing the 3D human parametric model as the motion guidance, we can perform parametric shape alignment of the human body between the reference image and the source video motion. Experimental evaluations conducted on benchmark datasets demonstrate the methodology's superior ability to generate high-quality human animations that accurately capture both pose and shape variations. Furthermore, our approach also exhibits superior generalization capabilities on the proposed wild dataset. Project page: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [295]
标题:  Multi-agent Task-Driven Exploration via Intelligent Map Compression and  Sharing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14780
作者:  Evangelos Psomiadis,  Dipankar Maity,  Panagiotis Tsiotras
备注:  
Abstract:This paper investigates the task-driven exploration of unknown environments with mobile sensors communicating compressed measurements. The sensors explore the area and transmit their compressed data to another robot, assisting it in reaching a goal location. We propose a novel communication framework and a tractable multi-agent exploration algorithm to select the sensors' actions. The algorithm uses a task-driven measure of uncertainty, resulting from map compression, as a reward function. We validate the efficacy of our algorithm through numerical simulations conducted on a realistic map and compare it with two alternative approaches. The results indicate that the proposed algorithm effectively decreases the time required for the robot to reach its target without causing excessive load on the communication network.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [296]
标题:  Diffusion Attack: Leveraging Stable Diffusion for Naturalistic Image  Attacking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14778
作者:  Qianyu Guo,  Jiaming Fu,  Yawen Lu,  Dongming Gan
备注:  Accepted to IEEE VRW
Abstract:In Virtual Reality (VR), adversarial attack remains a significant security threat. Most deep learning-based methods for physical and digital adversarial attacks focus on enhancing attack performance by crafting adversarial examples that contain large printable distortions that are easy for human observers to identify. However, attackers rarely impose limitations on the naturalness and comfort of the appearance of the generated attack image, resulting in a noticeable and unnatural attack. To address this challenge, we propose a framework to incorporate style transfer to craft adversarial inputs of natural styles that exhibit minimal detectability and maximum natural appearance, while maintaining superior attack capabilities.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [297]
标题:  A fourth-order exponential time differencing scheme with dimensional  splitting for non-linear reaction-diffusion systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14777
作者:  E.O. Asante-Asamani,  A. Kleefeld,  B.A. Wade
备注:  41 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:A fourth-order exponential time differencing (ETD) Runge-Kutta scheme with dimensional splitting is developed to solve multidimensional non-linear systems of reaction-diffusion equations (RDE). By approximating the matrix exponential in the scheme with the A-acceptable Padé (2,2) rational function, the resulting scheme (ETDRK4P22-IF) is verified empirically to be fourth-order accurate for several RDE. The scheme is shown to be more efficient than competing fourth-order ETD and IMEX schemes, achieving up to 20 times speed in CPU time. Inclusion of up to three pre-smoothing steps of a lower order L-stable scheme facilitates efficient damping of spurious oscillations arising from problems with non-smooth initial/boundary conditions.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [298]
标题:  RIS-Aided Cooperative Mobile Edge Computing: Computation Efficiency  Maximization via Joint Uplink and Downlink Resource Allocation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14775
作者:  Zhenrong Liu,  Zongze Li,  Yi Gong,  Yik-Chung Wu
备注:  This paper has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications
Abstract:In mobile edge computing (MEC) systems, the wireless channel condition is a critical factor affecting both the communication power consumption and computation rate of the offloading tasks. This paper exploits the idea of cooperative transmission and employing reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS) in MEC to improve the channel condition and maximize computation efficiency (CE). The resulting problem couples various wireless resources in both uplink and downlink, which calls for the joint design of the user association, receive/downlink beamforming vectors, transmit power of users, task partition strategies for local computing and offloading, and uplink/downlink phase shifts at the RIS. To tackle the challenges brought by the combinatorial optimization problem, the group sparsity structure of the beamforming vectors determined by user association is exploited. Furthermore, while the CE does not explicitly depend on the downlink phase shifts, instead of simply finding a feasible solution, we exploit the hidden relationship between them and convert this relationship into an explicit form for optimization. Then the resulting problem is solved via the alternating maximization framework, and the nonconvexity of each subproblem is handled individually. Simulation results show that cooperative transmission and RIS deployment can significantly improve the CE and demonstrate the importance of optimizing the downlink phase shifts with an explicit form.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [299]
标题:  Few-Shot Adversarial Prompt Learning on Vision-Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14774
作者:  Yiwei Zhou,  Xiaobo Xia,  Zhiwei Lin,  Bo Han,  Tongliang Liu
备注:  25 pages, 13 tables, 8 figures
Abstract:The vulnerability of deep neural networks to imperceptible adversarial perturbations has attracted widespread attention. Inspired by the success of vision-language foundation models, previous efforts achieved zero-shot adversarial robustness by aligning adversarial visual features with text supervision. However, in practice, they are still unsatisfactory due to several issues, including heavy adaptation cost, suboptimal text supervision, and uncontrolled natural generalization capacity. In this paper, to address these issues, we propose a few-shot adversarial prompt framework where adapting input sequences with limited data makes significant adversarial robustness improvement. Specifically, we achieve this by providing adversarially correlated text supervision that is end-to-end learned from adversarial examples. We also propose a novel training objective that enhances the consistency of multi-modal features while encourages differentiated uni-modal features between natural and adversarial examples. The proposed framework gives access to learn adversarial text supervision, which provides superior cross-modal adversarial alignment and matches state-of-the-art zero-shot adversarial robustness with only 1% training data.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [300]
标题:  StreamingT2V: Consistent, Dynamic, and Extendable Long Video Generation  from Text
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14773
作者:  Roberto Henschel,  Levon Khachatryan,  Daniil Hayrapetyan,  Hayk Poghosyan,  Vahram Tadevosyan,  Zhangyang Wang,  Shant Navasardyan,  Humphrey Shi
备注:  this https URL
Abstract:Text-to-video diffusion models enable the generation of high-quality videos that follow text instructions, making it easy to create diverse and individual content. However, existing approaches mostly focus on high-quality short video generation (typically 16 or 24 frames), ending up with hard-cuts when naively extended to the case of long video synthesis. To overcome these limitations, we introduce StreamingT2V, an autoregressive approach for long video generation of 80, 240, 600, 1200 or more frames with smooth transitions. The key components are:(i) a short-term memory block called conditional attention module (CAM), which conditions the current generation on the features extracted from the previous chunk via an attentional mechanism, leading to consistent chunk transitions, (ii) a long-term memory block called appearance preservation module, which extracts high-level scene and object features from the first video chunk to prevent the model from forgetting the initial scene, and (iii) a randomized blending approach that enables to apply a video enhancer autoregressively for infinitely long videos without inconsistencies between chunks. Experiments show that StreamingT2V generates high motion amount. In contrast, all competing image-to-video methods are prone to video stagnation when applied naively in an autoregressive manner. Thus, we propose with StreamingT2V a high-quality seamless text-to-long video generator that outperforms competitors with consistency and motion. Our code will be available at: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [301]
标题:  Improving Robustness to Model Inversion Attacks via Sparse Coding  Architectures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14772
作者:  Sayanton V. Dibbo,  Adam Breuer,  Juston Moore,  Michael Teti
备注:  32 pages, 15 Tables, and 9 Figures
Abstract:Recent model inversion attack algorithms permit adversaries to reconstruct a neural network's private training data just by repeatedly querying the network and inspecting its outputs. In this work, we develop a novel network architecture that leverages sparse-coding layers to obtain superior robustness to this class of attacks. Three decades of computer science research has studied sparse coding in the context of image denoising, object recognition, and adversarial misclassification settings, but to the best of our knowledge, its connection to state-of-the-art privacy vulnerabilities remains unstudied. However, sparse coding architectures suggest an advantageous means to defend against model inversion attacks because they allow us to control the amount of irrelevant private information encoded in a network's intermediate representations in a manner that can be computed efficiently during training and that is known to have little effect on classification accuracy. Specifically, compared to networks trained with a variety of state-of-the-art defenses, our sparse-coding architectures maintain comparable or higher classification accuracy while degrading state-of-the-art training data reconstructions by factors of 1.1 to 18.3 across a variety of reconstruction quality metrics (PSNR, SSIM, FID). This performance advantage holds across 5 datasets ranging from CelebA faces to medical images and CIFAR-10, and across various state-of-the-art SGD-based and GAN-based inversion attacks, including Plug-&-Play attacks. We provide a cluster-ready PyTorch codebase to promote research and standardize defense evaluations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [302]
标题:  Beehive: A Flexible Network Stack for Direct-Attached Accelerators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14770
作者:  Katie Lim,  Matthew Giordano,  Theano Stavrinos,  Baris Kasikci,  Tom Anderson
备注:  
Abstract:Accelerators have become increasingly popular in datacenters due to their cost, performance, and energy benefits. Direct-attached accelerators, where the network stack is implemented in hardware and network traffic bypasses the main CPU, can further enhance these benefits. However, modern datacenter software network stacks are complex, with interleaved protocol layers, network management functions, as well as virtualization support. They also need to flexibly interpose new layers to support new use cases. By contrast, most hardware network stacks only support basic protocol compatibility and are often difficult to extend due to using fixed processing pipelines. This paper proposes Beehive, a new, open-source hardware network stack for direct-attached FPGA accelerators designed to enable flexible and adaptive construction of complex protocol functionality. Our approach is based on a network-on-chip (NoC) substrate, automated tooling for the independent scale-up of protocol elements, compiletime deadlock analysis, and a flexible diagnostics and control plane. Our implementation interoperates with standard Linux TCP and UDP clients, allowing existing RPC clients to interface with the accelerator. We use three applications to illustrate the advantages of our approach: a throughputoriented erasure coding application, an accelerator for distributed consensus operations that reduces the latency and energy cost of linearizability, and TCP live migration support for dynamic server consolidation.
Subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)

**编号**: [303]
标题:  Relaxed Clique Percolation and Disinformation-Resilient Domains for  Social Commerce Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14767
作者:  Himangshu Paul,  Alexander Nikolaev
备注:  18 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:Must we trace and block all fake content in a social commerce network so that genuine users may enjoy fake-free information? Such efforts largely fail, because, as we get better at spam detection, spammers use the same advances for anti-detection. As a fundamentally new approach, we show that an online platform can aggregate and route user-generated content in a smart personalized way, which fosters and relies on "collective social responsibility". We introduce the notion of information aggregation domain, or simply, domain: composed for a given "central" node (user account), a domain is a connected set of nodes whose user-generated content is eligible to be used to meet the central node's information needs. Admitting malicious information sources - "bad citizen" nodes - into "good citizen" nodes' domains puts the good citizens at risk for disinformation attacks. We show how a platform can limit this risk by exploiting the social link structure between its nodes without the need to know which nodes are good or bad citizens. We introduce Relaxed Clique Percolation (RCP), a class of policies to compose personalized disinformation-resilient domains. Then, we define "RCP cores" and show how they can be used to efficiently compose resilient domains for all network nodes at once. Finally, we analyze the properties of RCP domains found in real-world social networks including Slashdot, Facebook, Flickr, and Yelp, to affirm that in practice, RCP domains turn out to be large and spatially diverse.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [304]
标题:  Can 3D Vision-Language Models Truly Understand Natural Language?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14760
作者:  Weipeng Deng,  Runyu Ding,  Jihan Yang,  Jiahui Liu,  Yijiang Li,  Xiaojuan Qi,  Edith Ngai
备注:  this https URL
Abstract:Rapid advancements in 3D vision-language (3D-VL) tasks have opened up new avenues for human interaction with embodied agents or robots using natural language. Despite this progress, we find a notable limitation: existing 3D-VL models exhibit sensitivity to the styles of language input, struggling to understand sentences with the same semantic meaning but written in different variants. This observation raises a critical question: Can 3D vision-language models truly understand natural language? To test the language understandability of 3D-VL models, we first propose a language robustness task for systematically assessing 3D-VL models across various tasks, benchmarking their performance when presented with different language style variants. Importantly, these variants are commonly encountered in applications requiring direct interaction with humans, such as embodied robotics, given the diversity and unpredictability of human language. We propose a 3D Language Robustness Dataset, designed based on the characteristics of human language, to facilitate the systematic study of robustness. Our comprehensive evaluation uncovers a significant drop in the performance of all existing models across various 3D-VL tasks. Even the state-of-the-art 3D-LLM fails to understand some variants of the same sentences. Further in-depth analysis suggests that the existing models have a fragile and biased fusion module, which stems from the low diversity of the existing dataset. Finally, we propose a training-free module driven by LLM, which improves language robustness. Datasets and code will be available at github.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [305]
标题:  VURF: A General-purpose Reasoning and Self-refinement Framework for  Video Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14743
作者:  Ahmad Mahmood,  Ashmal Vayani,  Muzammal Naseer,  Salman Khan,  Fahad Khan
备注:  
Abstract:Recent studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) as reasoning modules that can deconstruct complex tasks into more manageable sub-tasks, particularly when applied to visual reasoning tasks for images. In contrast, this paper introduces a Video Understanding and Reasoning Framework (VURF) based on the reasoning power of LLMs. Ours is a novel approach to extend the utility of LLMs in the context of video tasks, leveraging their capacity to generalize from minimal input and output demonstrations within a contextual framework. By presenting LLMs with pairs of instructions and their corresponding high-level programs, we harness their contextual learning capabilities to generate executable visual programs for video understanding. To enhance program's accuracy and robustness, we implement two important strategies. Firstly, we employ a feedback-generation approach, powered by GPT-3.5, to rectify errors in programs utilizing unsupported functions. Secondly, taking motivation from recent works on self refinement of LLM outputs, we introduce an iterative procedure for improving the quality of the in-context examples by aligning the initial outputs to the outputs that would have been generated had the LLM not been bound by the structure of the in-context examples. Our results on several video-specific tasks, including visual QA, video anticipation, pose estimation and multi-video QA illustrate the efficacy of these enhancements in improving the performance of visual programming approaches for video tasks. Our Codes and data will be publicly released.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [306]
标题:  Improving Galileo OSNMA Time To First Authenticated Fix
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14739
作者:  Aleix Galan (1),  Ignacio Fernandez-Hernandez (1 and 2),  Wim De Wilde (3),  Sofie Pollin (1),  Gonzalo Seco-Granados (4) ((1) KU Leuven, (2) European Commission, (3) Septentrio NV, (4) Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona)
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible. 12 pages, 15 figures
Abstract:Galileo is the first global navigation satellite system to authenticate their civilian signals through the Open Service Galileo Message Authentication (OSNMA) protocol. However, OSNMA delays the time to obtain a first position and time fix, the so-called Time To First Authentication Fix (TTFAF). Reducing the TTFAF as much as possible is crucial to integrate the technology seamlessly into the current products. In the cases where the receiver already has cryptographic data available, the so-called hot start mode and focus of this article, the currently available implementations achieve an average TTFAF of around 100 seconds in ideal environments. In this work, we dissect the TTFAF process, propose two main optimizations to reduce the TTFAF, and benchmark them in three distinct scenarios (open-sky, soft urban, and hard urban) with recorded real data. Moreover, we evaluate the optimizations using the synthetic scenario from the official OSNMA test vectors. The first block of optimizations centers on extracting as much information as possible from broken sub-frames by processing them at page level and combining redundant data from multiple satellites. The second block of optimizations aims to reconstruct missed navigation data by using fields in the authentication tags belonging to the same sub-frame as the authentication key. Combining both optimizations improves the TTFAF substantially for all considered scenarios. We obtain an average TTFAF of 60.9 and 68.8 seconds for the test vectors and the open-sky scenario, respectively, with a best-case of 44.0 seconds in both. Likewise, the urban scenarios see a drastic reduction of the average TTFAF between the non-optimized and optimized cases, from 127.5 to 87.5 seconds in the soft urban scenario and from 266.1 to 146.1 seconds in the hard urban scenario. These optimizations are available as part of the open-source OSNMAlib library on GitHub.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [307]
标题:  A task of anomaly detection for a smart satellite Internet of things  system
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14738
作者:  Zilong Shao
备注:  
Abstract:When the equipment is working, real-time collection of environmental sensor data for anomaly detection is one of the key links to prevent industrial process accidents and network attacks and ensure system security. However, under the environment with specific real-time requirements, the anomaly detection for environmental sensors still faces the following difficulties: (1) The complex nonlinear correlation characteristics between environmental sensor data variables lack effective expression methods, and the distribution between the data is difficult to be captured. (2) it is difficult to ensure the real-time monitoring requirements by using complex machine learning models, and the equipment cost is too high. (3) Too little sample data leads to less labeled data in supervised learning. This paper proposes an unsupervised deep learning anomaly detection system. Based on the generative adversarial network and self-attention mechanism, considering the different feature information contained in the local subsequences, it automatically learns the complex linear and nonlinear dependencies between environmental sensor variables, and uses the anomaly score calculation method combining reconstruction error and discrimination error. It can monitor the abnormal points of real sensor data with high real-time performance and can run on the intelligent satellite Internet of things system, which is suitable for the real working environment. Anomaly detection outperforms baseline methods in most cases and has good interpretability, which can be used to prevent industrial accidents and cyber-attacks for monitoring environmental sensors.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [308]
标题:  FedMef: Towards Memory-efficient Federated Dynamic Pruning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14737
作者:  Hong Huang,  Weiming Zhuang,  Chen Chen,  Lingjuan Lyu
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:Federated learning (FL) promotes decentralized training while prioritizing data confidentiality. However, its application on resource-constrained devices is challenging due to the high demand for computation and memory resources to train deep learning models. Neural network pruning techniques, such as dynamic pruning, could enhance model efficiency, but directly adopting them in FL still poses substantial challenges, including post-pruning performance degradation, high activation memory usage, etc. To address these challenges, we propose FedMef, a novel and memory-efficient federated dynamic pruning framework. FedMef comprises two key components. First, we introduce the budget-aware extrusion that maintains pruning efficiency while preserving post-pruning performance by salvaging crucial information from parameters marked for pruning within a given budget. Second, we propose scaled activation pruning to effectively reduce activation memory footprints, which is particularly beneficial for deploying FL to memory-limited devices. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed FedMef. In particular, it achieves a significant reduction of 28.5% in memory footprint compared to state-of-the-art methods while obtaining superior accuracy.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [309]
标题:  Foundation Models for Time Series Analysis: A Tutorial and Survey
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14735
作者:  Yuxuan Liang,  Haomin Wen,  Yuqi Nie,  Yushan Jiang,  Ming Jin,  Dongjin Song,  Shirui Pan,  Qingsong Wen
备注:  
Abstract:Time series analysis stands as a focal point within the data mining community, serving as a cornerstone for extracting valuable insights crucial to a myriad of real-world applications. Recent advancements in Foundation Models (FMs) have fundamentally reshaped the paradigm of model design for time series analysis, boosting various downstream tasks in practice. These innovative approaches often leverage pre-trained or fine-tuned FMs to harness generalized knowledge tailored specifically for time series analysis. In this survey, we aim to furnish a comprehensive and up-to-date overview of FMs for time series analysis. While prior surveys have predominantly focused on either the application or the pipeline aspects of FMs in time series analysis, they have often lacked an in-depth understanding of the underlying mechanisms that elucidate why and how FMs benefit time series analysis. To address this gap, our survey adopts a model-centric classification, delineating various pivotal elements of time-series FMs, including model architectures, pre-training techniques, adaptation methods, and data modalities. Overall, this survey serves to consolidate the latest advancements in FMs pertinent to time series analysis, accentuating their theoretical underpinnings, recent strides in development, and avenues for future research exploration.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [310]
标题:  A Survey of Neural Code Intelligence: Paradigms, Advances and Beyond
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14734
作者:  Qiushi Sun,  Zhirui Chen,  Fangzhi Xu,  Kanzhi Cheng,  Chang Ma,  Zhangyue Yin,  Jianing Wang,  Chengcheng Han,  Renyu Zhu,  Shuai Yuan,  Qipeng Guo,  Xipeng Qiu,  Pengcheng Yin,  Xiaoli Li,  Fei Yuan,  Lingpeng Kong,  Xiang Li,  Zhiyong Wu
备注:  64 pages, 6 figures, 10 tables, 688 references
Abstract:Neural Code Intelligence -- leveraging deep learning to understand, generate, and optimize code -- holds immense potential for transformative impacts on the whole society. Bridging the gap between Natural Language and Programming Language, this domain has drawn significant attention from researchers in both research communities over the past few years. This survey presents a systematic and chronological review of the advancements in code intelligence, encompassing over 50 representative models and their variants, more than 20 categories of tasks, and an extensive coverage of over 680 related works. We follow the historical progression to trace the paradigm shifts across different research phases (e.g., from modeling code with recurrent neural networks to the era of Large Language Models). Concurrently, we highlight the major technical transitions in models, tasks, and evaluations spanning through different stages. For applications, we also observe a co-evolving shift. It spans from initial endeavors to tackling specific scenarios, through exploring a diverse array of tasks during its rapid expansion, to currently focusing on tackling increasingly complex and varied real-world challenges. Building on our examination of the developmental trajectories, we further investigate the emerging synergies between code intelligence and broader machine intelligence, uncovering new cross-domain opportunities and illustrating the substantial influence of code intelligence across various domains. Finally, we delve into both the opportunities and challenges associated with this field, alongside elucidating our insights on the most promising research directions. An ongoing, dynamically updated project and resources associated with this survey have been released at this https URL.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [311]
标题:  Open Knowledge Base Canonicalization with Multi-task Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14733
作者:  Bingchen Liu,  Huang Peng,  Weixin Zeng,  Xiang Zhao,  Shijun Liu,  Li Pan
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2310.16419
Abstract:The construction of large open knowledge bases (OKBs) is integral to many knowledge-driven applications on the world wide web such as web search. However, noun phrases and relational phrases in OKBs often suffer from redundancy and ambiguity, which calls for the investigation on OKB canonicalization. Current solutions address OKB canonicalization by devising advanced clustering algorithms and using knowledge graph embedding (KGE) to further facilitate the canonicalization process. Nevertheless, these works fail to fully exploit the synergy between clustering and KGE learning, and the methods designed for these subtasks are sub-optimal. To this end, we put forward a multi-task learning framework, namely MulCanon, to tackle OKB canonicalization. In addition, diffusion model is used in the soft clustering process to improve the noun phrase representations with neighboring information, which can lead to more accurate representations. MulCanon unifies the learning objectives of these sub-tasks, and adopts a two-stage multi-task learning paradigm for training. A thorough experimental study on popular OKB canonicalization benchmarks validates that MulCanon can achieve competitive canonicalization results.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [312]
标题:  Collision Aware Data Allocation In Multi-tube DNA Storage
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14732
作者:  Yixun Wei,  Bingzhe Li,  David Du
备注:  arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2403.14204
Abstract:DNA storage is a promising archival data storage solution to today's big data problem. A DNA storage system encodes and stores digital data with synthetic DNA sequences and decodes DNA sequences back to digital data via sequencing. For efficient target data retrieving, existing Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) based DNA storage systems apply primers as specific identifiers to tag different sets of DNA strands. However, if a primer has collisions with any payload in the same DNA tube, the primer cannot safely serve as an identifier and must be disabled in this tube. In a DNA storage system with multiple DNA tubes, the primer-payload collisions can spread over all DNA tubes, repeatedly disable many primers, and cause a significant overall capacity reduction. This paper proposes using a collision-aware data allocation scheme to allocate data with different collisions into different tubes so that a primer banned in a tube because of primer-payload collision can be reused in other tubes. This allocation helps increase the number of usable primers over all tubes thus enhancing the overall storage capacity. The executing time of our scheme is $O(n^2)$ to the number of digital data chunks. The scheme serves as a pre-processing method for any DNA storage system. The evaluation of the state-of-the-art encoding scheme shows that the scheme can increase 20%-25% overall storage capacity.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [313]
标题:  Reversible Jump Attack to Textual Classifiers with Modification  Reduction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14731
作者:  Mingze Ni,  Zhensu Sun,  Wei Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Recent studies on adversarial examples expose vulnerabilities of natural language processing (NLP) models. Existing techniques for generating adversarial examples are typically driven by deterministic hierarchical rules that are agnostic to the optimal adversarial examples, a strategy that often results in adversarial samples with a suboptimal balance between magnitudes of changes and attack successes. To this end, in this research we propose two algorithms, Reversible Jump Attack (RJA) and Metropolis-Hasting Modification Reduction (MMR), to generate highly effective adversarial examples and to improve the imperceptibility of the examples, respectively. RJA utilizes a novel randomization mechanism to enlarge the search space and efficiently adapts to a number of perturbed words for adversarial examples. With these generated adversarial examples, MMR applies the Metropolis-Hasting sampler to enhance the imperceptibility of adversarial examples. Extensive experiments demonstrate that RJA-MMR outperforms current state-of-the-art methods in attack performance, imperceptibility, fluency and grammar correctness.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [314]
标题:  Auto-Train-Once: Controller Network Guided Automatic Network Pruning  from Scratch
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14729
作者:  Xidong Wu,  Shangqian Gao,  Zeyu Zhang,  Zhenzhen Li,  Runxue Bao,  Yanfu Zhang,  Xiaoqian Wang,  Heng Huang
备注:  
Abstract:Current techniques for deep neural network (DNN) pruning often involve intricate multi-step processes that require domain-specific expertise, making their widespread adoption challenging. To address the limitation, the Only-Train-Once (OTO) and OTOv2 are proposed to eliminate the need for additional fine-tuning steps by directly training and compressing a general DNN from scratch. Nevertheless, the static design of optimizers (in OTO) can lead to convergence issues of local optima. In this paper, we proposed the Auto-Train-Once (ATO), an innovative network pruning algorithm designed to automatically reduce the computational and storage costs of DNNs. During the model training phase, our approach not only trains the target model but also leverages a controller network as an architecture generator to guide the learning of target model weights. Furthermore, we developed a novel stochastic gradient algorithm that enhances the coordination between model training and controller network training, thereby improving pruning performance. We provide a comprehensive convergence analysis as well as extensive experiments, and the results show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance across various model architectures (including ResNet18, ResNet34, ResNet50, ResNet56, and MobileNetv2) on standard benchmark datasets (CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and ImageNet).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [315]
标题:  Protected group bias and stereotypes in Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14727
作者:  Hadas Kotek,  David Q. Sun,  Zidi Xiu,  Margit Bowler,  Christopher Klein
备注:  
Abstract:As modern Large Language Models (LLMs) shatter many state-of-the-art benchmarks in a variety of domains, this paper investigates their behavior in the domains of ethics and fairness, focusing on protected group bias. We conduct a two-part study: first, we solicit sentence continuations describing the occupations of individuals from different protected groups, including gender, sexuality, religion, and race. Second, we have the model generate stories about individuals who hold different types of occupations. We collect >10k sentence completions made by a publicly available LLM, which we subject to human annotation. We find bias across minoritized groups, but in particular in the domains of gender and sexuality, as well as Western bias, in model generations. The model not only reflects societal biases, but appears to amplify them. The model is additionally overly cautious in replies to queries relating to minoritized groups, providing responses that strongly emphasize diversity and equity to an extent that other group characteristics are overshadowed. This suggests that artificially constraining potentially harmful outputs may itself lead to harm, and should be applied in a careful and controlled manner.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [316]
标题:  On Enforcing Existence and Non-Existence Constraints in MatBase
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14726
作者:  Christian Mancas
备注:  Submitted to the BOHR International Journal of Computer Science (BIJCS), ISSN: 2583-455X, on March 20, 2024
Abstract:Existence constraints were defined in the Relational Data Model, but, unfortunately, are not provided by any Relational Database Management System, except for their NOT NULL particular case. Our (Elementary) Mathematical Data Model extended them to function products and introduced their dual non-existence constraints. MatBase, an intelligent data and knowledge base management system prototype based on both these data models, not only provides existence and non-existence constraints, but also automatically generates code for their enforcement. This paper presents and discusses the algorithms used by MatBase to enforce these types of constraints.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [317]
标题:  Jailbreaking is Best Solved by Definition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14725
作者:  Taeyoun Kim,  Suhas Kotha,  Aditi Raghunathan
备注:  
Abstract:The rise of "jailbreak" attacks on language models has led to a flurry of defenses aimed at preventing the output of undesirable responses. In this work, we critically examine the two stages of the defense pipeline: (i) the definition of what constitutes unsafe outputs, and (ii) the enforcement of the definition via methods such as input processing or fine-tuning. We cast severe doubt on the efficacy of existing enforcement mechanisms by showing that they fail to defend even for a simple definition of unsafe outputs--outputs that contain the word "purple". In contrast, post-processing outputs is perfectly robust for such a definition. Drawing on our results, we present our position that the real challenge in defending jailbreaks lies in obtaining a good definition of unsafe responses: without a good definition, no enforcement strategy can succeed, but with a good definition, output processing already serves as a robust baseline albeit with inference-time overheads.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [318]
标题:  Six Levels of Privacy: A Framework for Financial Synthetic Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14724
作者:  Tucker Balch,  Vamsi K. Potluru,  Deepak Paramanand,  Manuela Veloso
备注:  Six privacy levels framework; excerpted from "Synthetic Data Applications in Finance'' (arxiv:2401.00081) article
Abstract:Synthetic Data is increasingly important in financial applications. In addition to the benefits it provides, such as improved financial modeling and better testing procedures, it poses privacy risks as well. Such data may arise from client information, business information, or other proprietary sources that must be protected. Even though the process by which Synthetic Data is generated serves to obscure the original data to some degree, the extent to which privacy is preserved is hard to assess. Accordingly, we introduce a hierarchy of ``levels'' of privacy that are useful for categorizing Synthetic Data generation methods and the progressively improved protections they offer. While the six levels were devised in the context of financial applications, they may also be appropriate for other industries as well. Our paper includes: A brief overview of Financial Synthetic Data, how it can be used, how its value can be assessed, privacy risks, and privacy attacks. We close with details of the ``Six Levels'' that include defenses against those attacks.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)

**编号**: [319]
标题:  GPolylla: Fully GPU-accelerated polygonal mesh generator
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14723
作者:  Sergio Salinas-Fernández,  Nancy Hitschfeld-Kahler,  Roberto Carrasco
备注:  
Abstract:This work presents a fully GPU-accelerated algorithm for the polygonal mesh generator known as Polylla. Polylla is a tri-to-polygon mesh generator, which benefits from the half-edge data structure to manage any polygonal shape. The proposed parallel algorithm introduces a novel approach to modify triangulations to get polygonal meshes using the half-edge data structure in parallel on the GPU. By changing the adjacency values of each half-edge, the algorithm accomplish to unlink half-edges that are not used in the new polygonal mesh without the need neither removing nor allocating new memory in the GPU. The experimental results show a speedup, reaching up to $\times 83.2$ when compared to the CPU sequential implementation. Additionally, the speedup is $\times 746.8$ when the cost of copying the data structure from the host device and back is not included.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [320]
标题:  Automated Extraction and Maturity Analysis of Open Source Clinical  Informatics Repositories from Scientific Literature
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14721
作者:  Jeremy R. Harper
备注:  
Abstract:In the evolving landscape of clinical informatics, the integration and utilization of software tools developed through governmental funding represent a pivotal advancement in research and application. However, the dispersion of these tools across various repositories, with no centralized knowledge base, poses significant challenges to leveraging their full potential. This study introduces an automated methodology to bridge this gap by systematically extracting GitHub repository URLs from academic papers indexed in arXiv, focusing on the field of clinical informatics. Our approach encompasses querying the arXiv API for relevant papers, cleaning extracted GitHub URLs, fetching comprehensive repository information via the GitHub API, and analyzing repository maturity based on defined metrics such as stars, forks, open issues, and contributors. The process is designed to be robust, incorporating error handling and rate limiting to ensure compliance with API constraints. Preliminary findings demonstrate the efficacy of this methodology in compiling a centralized knowledge base of NIH-funded software tools, laying the groundwork for an enriched understanding and utilization of these resources within the clinical informatics community. We propose the future integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate concise summaries and evaluations of the tools. This approach facilitates the discovery and assessment of clinical informatics tools and also enables ongoing monitoring of new and actively updated repositories, revolutionizing how researchers access and leverage federally funded software. The implications of this study extend beyond simplification of access to valuable resources; it proposes a scalable model for the dynamic aggregation and evaluation of scientific software, encouraging more collaborative, transparent, and efficient research practices in clinical informatics and beyond.
Subjects: Digital Libraries (cs.DL); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [321]
标题:  Defending Against Indirect Prompt Injection Attacks With Spotlighting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14720
作者:  Keegan Hines,  Gary Lopez,  Matthew Hall,  Federico Zarfati,  Yonatan Zunger,  Emre Kiciman
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs), while powerful, are built and trained to process a single text input. In common applications, multiple inputs can be processed by concatenating them together into a single stream of text. However, the LLM is unable to distinguish which sections of prompt belong to various input sources. Indirect prompt injection attacks take advantage of this vulnerability by embedding adversarial instructions into untrusted data being processed alongside user commands. Often, the LLM will mistake the adversarial instructions as user commands to be followed, creating a security vulnerability in the larger system. We introduce spotlighting, a family of prompt engineering techniques that can be used to improve LLMs' ability to distinguish among multiple sources of input. The key insight is to utilize transformations of an input to provide a reliable and continuous signal of its provenance. We evaluate spotlighting as a defense against indirect prompt injection attacks, and find that it is a robust defense that has minimal detrimental impact to underlying NLP tasks. Using GPT-family models, we find that spotlighting reduces the attack success rate from greater than {50}\% to below {2}\% in our experiments with minimal impact on task efficacy.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [322]
标题:  Bypassing LLM Watermarks with Color-Aware Substitutions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14719
作者:  Qilong Wu,  Varun Chandrasekaran
备注:  
Abstract:Watermarking approaches are proposed to identify if text being circulated is human or large language model (LLM) generated. The state-of-the-art watermarking strategy of Kirchenbauer et al. (2023a) biases the LLM to generate specific (``green'') tokens. However, determining the robustness of this watermarking method is an open problem. Existing attack methods fail to evade detection for longer text segments. We overcome this limitation, and propose {\em Self Color Testing-based Substitution (SCTS)}, the first ``color-aware'' attack. SCTS obtains color information by strategically prompting the watermarked LLM and comparing output tokens frequencies. It uses this information to determine token colors, and substitutes green tokens with non-green ones. In our experiments, SCTS successfully evades watermark detection using fewer number of edits than related work. Additionally, we show both theoretically and empirically that SCTS can remove the watermark for arbitrarily long watermarked text.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [323]
标题:  FedSR: A Semi-Decentralized Federated Learning Algorithm for Non-IIDness  in IoT System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14718
作者:  Jianjun Huang,  Lixin Ye,  Li Kang
备注:  11 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:In the Industrial Internet of Things (IoT), a large amount of data will be generated every day. Due to privacy and security issues, it is difficult to collect all these data together to train deep learning models, thus the federated learning, a distributed machine learning paradigm that protects data privacy, has been widely used in IoT. However, in practical federated learning, the data distributions usually have large differences across devices, and the heterogeneity of data will deteriorate the performance of the model. Moreover, federated learning in IoT usually has a large number of devices involved in training, and the limited communication resource of cloud servers become a bottleneck for training. To address the above issues, in this paper, we combine centralized federated learning with decentralized federated learning to design a semi-decentralized cloud-edge-device hierarchical federated learning framework, which can mitigate the impact of data heterogeneity, and can be deployed at lage scale in IoT. To address the effect of data heterogeneity, we use an incremental subgradient optimization algorithm in each ring cluster to improve the generalization ability of the ring cluster models. Our extensive experiments show that our approach can effectively mitigate the impact of data heterogeneity and alleviate the communication bottleneck in cloud servers.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [324]
标题:  Individual and Product-Related Antecedents of Electronic Word-of-Mouth
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14717
作者:  Bogdan Anastasiei,  Nicoleta Dospinescu,  Octavian Dospinescu
备注:  29 pages, 2 figures, 4 tables
Abstract:This research investigates the antecedents of positive and negative electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM) propensity, as well as the impact of eWOM propensity on the intention to repurchase the product. Two types of eWOM predictors were considered: product related variables and personal factors. The data were collected through an online survey conducted on a sample of 335 Romanian subjects, and the analysis method was Structural Equation Modeling. Our findings show that personal factors - social media usage behavior, marketing mavenism and need to evaluate - are the most important antecedents of the intention to write product reviews and comments online, either positive or negative. From the product related factors, only brand trust influences the propensity to provide eWOM. Furthermore, both positive and negative eWOM intentions are associated with the repurchase intention.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [325]
标题:  Distributed Learning based on 1-Bit Gradient Coding in the Presence of  Stragglers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14716
作者:  Chengxi Li,  Mikael Skoglund
备注:  Accepted by IEEE TCOM
Abstract:This paper considers the problem of distributed learning (DL) in the presence of stragglers. For this problem, DL methods based on gradient coding have been widely investigated, which redundantly distribute the training data to the workers to guarantee convergence when some workers are stragglers. However, these methods require the workers to transmit real-valued vectors during the process of learning, which induces very high communication burden. To overcome this drawback, we propose a novel DL method based on 1-bit gradient coding (1-bit GCDL), where 1-bit data encoded from the locally computed gradients are transmitted by the workers to reduce the communication overhead. We theoretically provide the convergence guarantees of the proposed method for both the convex loss functions and nonconvex loss functions. It is shown empirically that 1-bit GC-DL outperforms the baseline methods, which attains better learning performance under the same communication overhead.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [326]
标题:  Understanding Why Label Smoothing Degrades Selective Classification and  How to Fix It
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14715
作者:  Guoxuan Xia,  Olivier Laurent,  Gianni Franchi,  Christos-Savvas Bouganis
备注:  
Abstract:Label smoothing (LS) is a popular regularisation method for training deep neural network classifiers due to its effectiveness in improving test accuracy and its simplicity in implementation. "Hard" one-hot labels are "smoothed" by uniformly distributing probability mass to other classes, reducing overfitting. In this work, we reveal that LS negatively affects selective classification (SC) - where the aim is to reject misclassifications using a model's predictive uncertainty. We first demonstrate empirically across a range of tasks and architectures that LS leads to a consistent degradation in SC. We then explain this by analysing logit-level gradients, showing that LS exacerbates overconfidence and underconfidence by regularising the max logit more when the probability of error is low, and less when the probability of error is high. This elucidates previously reported experimental results where strong classifiers underperform in SC. We then demonstrate the empirical effectiveness of logit normalisation for recovering lost SC performance caused by LS. Furthermore, based on our gradient analysis, we explain why such normalisation is effective. We will release our code shortly.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [327]
标题:  Compiler generated feedback for Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14714
作者:  Dejan Grubisic,  Chris Cummins,  Volker Seeker,  Hugh Leather
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce a novel paradigm in compiler optimization powered by Large Language Models with compiler feedback to optimize the code size of LLVM assembly. The model takes unoptimized LLVM IR as input and produces optimized IR, the best optimization passes, and instruction counts of both unoptimized and optimized IRs. Then we compile the input with generated optimization passes and evaluate if the predicted instruction count is correct, generated IR is compilable, and corresponds to compiled code. We provide this feedback back to LLM and give it another chance to optimize code. This approach adds an extra 0.53% improvement over -Oz to the original model. Even though, adding more information with feedback seems intuitive, simple sampling techniques achieve much higher performance given 10 or more samples.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [328]
标题:  Auditing Fairness under Unobserved Confounding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14713
作者:  Yewon Byun,  Dylan Sam,  Michael Oberst,  Zachary C. Lipton,  Bryan Wilder
备注:  AISTATS 2024
Abstract:A fundamental problem in decision-making systems is the presence of inequity across demographic lines. However, inequity can be difficult to quantify, particularly if our notion of equity relies on hard-to-measure notions like risk (e.g., equal access to treatment for those who would die without it). Auditing such inequity requires accurate measurements of individual risk, which is difficult to estimate in the realistic setting of unobserved confounding. In the case that these unobservables "explain" an apparent disparity, we may understate or overstate inequity. In this paper, we show that one can still give informative bounds on allocation rates among high-risk individuals, even while relaxing or (surprisingly) even when eliminating the assumption that all relevant risk factors are observed. We utilize the fact that in many real-world settings (e.g., the introduction of a novel treatment) we have data from a period prior to any allocation, to derive unbiased estimates of risk. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on a real-world study of Paxlovid allocation to COVID-19 patients, finding that observed racial inequity cannot be explained by unobserved confounders of the same strength as important observed covariates.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [329]
标题:  AI for bureaucratic productivity: Measuring the potential of AI to help  automate 143 million UK government transactions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14712
作者:  Vincent J. Straub,  Youmna Hashem,  Jonathan Bright,  Satyam Bhagwanani,  Deborah Morgan,  John Francis,  Saba Esnaashari,  Helen Margetts
备注:  
Abstract:There is currently considerable excitement within government about the potential of artificial intelligence to improve public service productivity through the automation of complex but repetitive bureaucratic tasks, freeing up the time of skilled staff. Here, we explore the size of this opportunity, by mapping out the scale of citizen-facing bureaucratic decision-making procedures within UK central government, and measuring their potential for AI-driven automation. We estimate that UK central government conducts approximately one billion citizen-facing transactions per year in the provision of around 400 services, of which approximately 143 million are complex repetitive transactions. We estimate that 84% of these complex transactions are highly automatable, representing a huge potential opportunity: saving even an average of just one minute per complex transaction would save the equivalent of approximately 1,200 person-years of work every year. We also develop a model to estimate the volume of transactions a government service undertakes, providing a way for government to avoid conducting time consuming transaction volume measurements. Finally, we find that there is high turnover in the types of services government provide, meaning that automation efforts should focus on general procedures rather than services themselves which are likely to evolve over time. Overall, our work presents a novel perspective on the structure and functioning of modern government, and how it might evolve in the age of artificial intelligence.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [330]
标题:  Human-in-the-Loop AI for Cheating Ring Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14711
作者:  Yong-Siang Shih,  Manqian Liao,  Ruidong Liu,  Mirza Basim Baig
备注:  Accepted to the AI4Ed Workshop at AAAI 2024 as a short paper
Abstract:Online exams have become popular in recent years due to their accessibility. However, some concerns have been raised about the security of the online exams, particularly in the context of professional cheating services aiding malicious test takers in passing exams, forming so-called "cheating rings". In this paper, we introduce a human-in-the-loop AI cheating ring detection system designed to detect and deter these cheating rings. We outline the underlying logic of this human-in-the-loop AI system, exploring its design principles tailored to achieve its objectives of detecting cheaters. Moreover, we illustrate the methodologies used to evaluate its performance and fairness, aiming to mitigate the unintended risks associated with the AI system. The design and development of the system adhere to Responsible AI (RAI) standards, ensuring that ethical considerations are integrated throughout the entire development process.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [331]
标题:  Use of recommendation models to provide support to dyslexic students
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14710
作者:  Gianluca Morciano,  José Manuel Alcalde-Llergo,  Andrea Zingoni,  Enrique Yeguas-Bolivar,  Juri Taborri,  Giuseppe Calabrò
备注:  36 pages, 4 figures and 6 tables. Preprint submitted to Expert Systems with Applications
Abstract:Dyslexia is the most widespread specific learning disorder and significantly impair different cognitive domains. This, in turn, negatively affects dyslexic students during their learning path. Therefore, specific support must be given to these students. In addition, such a support must be highly personalized, since the problems generated by the disorder can be very different from one to another. In this work, we explored the possibility of using AI to suggest the most suitable supporting tools for dyslexic students, so as to provide a targeted help that can be of real utility. To do this, we relied on recommendation algorithms, which are a branch of machine learning, that aim to detect personal preferences and provide the most suitable suggestions. We hence implemented and trained three collaborative-filtering recommendation models, namely an item-based, a user-based and a weighted-hybrid model, and studied their performance on a large database of 1237 students' information, collected with a self-evaluating questionnaire regarding all the most used supporting strategies and digital tools. Each recommendation model was tested with three different similarity metrics, namely Pearson correlation, Euclidean distance and Cosine similarity. The obtained results showed that a recommendation system is highly effective in suggesting the optimal help tools/strategies for everyone. This demonstrates that the proposed approach is successful and can be used as a new and effective methodology to support students with dyslexia.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [332]
标题:  ClimateQ&A: Bridging the gap between climate scientists and the general  public
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14709
作者:  Natalia De La Calzada,  Théo Alves Da Costa,  Annabelle Blangero,  Nicolas Chesneau
备注:  Accepted as a workshop paper at "Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning", ICLR 2024
Abstract:This research paper investigates public views on climate change and biodiversity loss by analyzing questions asked to the ClimateQ&A platform. ClimateQ&A is a conversational agent that uses LLMs to respond to queries based on over 14,000 pages of scientific literature from the IPCC and IPBES reports. Launched online in March 2023, the tool has gathered over 30,000 questions, mainly from a French audience. Its chatbot interface allows for the free formulation of questions related to nature*. While its main goal is to make nature science more accessible, it also allows for the collection and analysis of questions and their themes. Unlike traditional surveys involving closed questions, this novel method offers a fresh perspective on individual interrogations about nature. Running NLP clustering algorithms on a sample of 3,425 questions, we find that a significant 25.8% inquire about how climate change and biodiversity loss will affect them personally (e.g., where they live or vacation, their consumption habits) and the specific impacts of their actions on nature (e.g., transportation or food choices). This suggests that traditional methods of surveying may not identify all existing knowledge gaps, and that relying solely on IPCC and IPBES reports may not address all individual inquiries about climate and biodiversity, potentially affecting public understanding and action on these issues. *we use 'nature' as an umbrella term for 'climate change' and 'biodiversity loss'
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [333]
标题:  Visualizing Progress in Broadening Participation in Computing: The Value  of Context
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14708
作者:  Valerie Barr,  Carla E. Brodley,  Manuel A. Pérez-Quiñones
备注:  Accepted for publication in Communications of the ACM, late summer or Fall 2024
Abstract:Concerns about representation in computing within the U.S. have driven numerous activities to broaden participation. Assessment of the impact of these efforts and, indeed, a clear assessment of the actual "problem" being addressed are limited by the nature of the most common data analysis which looks at the representation of each population as a percentage of the number of students graduating with a degree in computing. This use of a single metric cannot adequately assess the impact of broadening participation efforts. First, this approach fails to account for changing demographics of the undergraduate population in terms of overall numbers and relative proportion of the Federally designated gender, race, and ethnicity groupings. A second issue is that the majority of literature on broadening participation in computing (BPC) reports data on gender or on race/ethnicity, omitting data on students' intersectional identities. This leads to an incorrect understanding of both the data and the challenges we face as a field. In this paper we present several different approaches to tracking the impact of BPC efforts. We make three recommendations: 1) cohort-based analysis should be used to accurately show student engagement in computing; 2) the field as a whole needs to adopt the norm of always reporting intersectional data; 3) university demographic context matters when looking at how well a CS department is doing to broaden participation in computing, including longitudinal analysis of university demographic shifts that impact the local demographics of computing.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [334]
标题:  Synergy of Information in Multimodal IoT Systems -- Discovering the  impact of daily behaviour routines on physical activity level
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14707
作者:  Mohsen Shirali,  Zahra Ahmadi,  Carlos Fernández-Llatas,  Jose-Luis Bayo-Monton
备注:  
Abstract:The intricate connection between daily behaviours and health necessitates robust behaviour monitoring, particularly with the advent of IoT systems. This study introduces an innovative approach, exploiting the synergy of information from various IoT sources, to assess the alignment of behaviour routines with health guidelines. We grouped routines based on guideline compliance and used a clustering method to identify similarities in behaviours and key characteristics within each cluster. Applied to an elderly care case study, our approach unveils patterns leading to physical inactivity by categorising days based on recommended daily steps. Utilising data from wristbands, smartphones, and ambient sensors, the study provides insights not achievable with single-source data. Visualisation in a calendar view aids health experts in understanding patient behaviours, enabling precise interventions. Notably, the approach facilitates early detection of behaviour changes during events like COVID-19 and Ramadan, available in our dataset. This work signifies a promising path for behavioural analysis and discovering variations to empower smart healthcare, offering insights into patient health, personalised interventions, and healthier routines through continuous IoT-driven data analysis.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [335]
标题:  Safeguarding Marketing Research: The Generation, Identification, and  Mitigation of AI-Fabricated Disinformation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14706
作者:  Anirban Mukherjee
备注:  
Abstract:Generative AI has ushered in the ability to generate content that closely mimics human contributions, introducing an unprecedented threat: Deployed en masse, these models can be used to manipulate public opinion and distort perceptions, resulting in a decline in trust towards digital platforms. This study contributes to marketing literature and practice in three ways. First, it demonstrates the proficiency of AI in fabricating disinformative user-generated content (UGC) that mimics the form of authentic content. Second, it quantifies the disruptive impact of such UGC on marketing research, highlighting the susceptibility of analytics frameworks to even minimal levels of disinformation. Third, it proposes and evaluates advanced detection frameworks, revealing that standard techniques are insufficient for filtering out AI-generated disinformation. We advocate for a comprehensive approach to safeguarding marketing research that integrates advanced algorithmic solutions, enhanced human oversight, and a reevaluation of regulatory and ethical frameworks. Our study seeks to serve as a catalyst, providing a foundation for future research and policy-making aimed at navigating the intricate challenges at the nexus of technology, ethics, and marketing.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [336]
标题:  Concept-Best-Matching: Evaluating Compositionality in Emergent  Communication
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14705
作者:  Boaz Carmeli,  Yonatan Belinkov,  Ron Meir
备注:  
Abstract:Artificial agents that learn to communicate in order to accomplish a given task acquire communication protocols that are typically opaque to a human. A large body of work has attempted to evaluate the emergent communication via various evaluation measures, with \emph{compositionality} featuring as a prominent desired trait. However, current evaluation procedures do not directly expose the compositionality of the emergent communication. We propose a procedure to assess the compositionality of emergent communication by finding the best-match between emerged words and natural language concepts. The best-match algorithm provides both a global score and a translation-map from emergent words to natural language concepts. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first time that such direct and interpretable mapping between emergent words and human concepts is provided.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [337]
标题:  A minimal coalition logic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14704
作者:  Yinfeng Li,  Fengkui Ju
备注:  
Abstract:Coalition logic is a central logic in strategic reasoning studies. In this paper, we first argue that Coalition Logic models, concurrent game models, have three too-strong assumptions. The first one is the independence of agents; that is, the merge of two available joint actions of two disjoint coalitions is always available for the union of the two coalitions. The second one is seriality; that is, coalitions always have available joint actions. The third one is determinism, that is, the grand coalition's joint actions always have a unique outcome. Second, we present a coalition logic based on general concurrent game models, which do not have the three assumptions. We show the completeness of this logic and compare it with Coalition Logic in detail. This logic seems minimal in the context of strategic reasoning.
Subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [338]
标题:  Large language model-powered chatbots for internationalizing student  support in higher education
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14702
作者:  Achraf Hsain,  Hamza El Housni
备注:  Key Words: Chatbot, Higher Education, Large Language model, Student Support, Information retrieval. Presented in the conference: The Internationalization of Higher Education and Digital Transformation: Addressing Current and Future Possibilities in Oujda, Morocco
Abstract:This research explores the integration of chatbot technology powered by GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 Turbo into higher education to enhance internationalization and leverage digital transformation. It delves into the design, implementation, and application of Large Language Models (LLMs) for improving student engagement, information access, and support. Utilizing technologies like Python 3, GPT API, LangChain, and Chroma Vector Store, the research emphasizes creating a high-quality, timely, and relevant transcript dataset for chatbot testing. Findings indicate the chatbot's efficacy in providing comprehensive responses, its preference over traditional methods by users, and a low error rate. Highlighting the chatbot's real-time engagement, memory capabilities, and critical data access, the study demonstrates its potential to elevate accessibility, efficiency, and satisfaction. Concluding, the research suggests the chatbot significantly aids higher education internationalization, proposing further investigation into digital technology's role in educational enhancement and strategy development.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [339]
标题:  Rule based Complex Event Processing for an Air Quality Monitoring System  in Smart City
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14701
作者:  Shashi Shekhar Kumar,  Ritesh Chandra,  Sonali Agarwal
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, smart city-based development has gained momentum due to its versatile nature in architecture and planning for the systematic habitation of human beings. According to World Health Organization (WHO) report, air pollution causes serious respiratory diseases. Hence, it becomes necessary to real-time monitoring of air quality to minimize effect by taking time-bound decisions by the stakeholders. The air pollution comprises various compositions such as NH3, O3, SO2, NO2, etc., and their concentrations vary from location to location.The research work proposes an integrated framework for monitoring air quality using rule-based Complex Event Processing (CEP) and SPARQL queries. CEP works with the data stream based on predefined rules to detect the complex pattern, which helps in decision support for stakeholders. Initially, the dataset was collected from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) of India and this data was then preprocessed and passed through Apache Kafka. Then a knowledge graph developed based on the air quality paradigm. Consequently, convert preprocessed data into Resource Description Framework (RDF) data, and integrate with Knowledge graph which is ingested to CEP engine using Apache Jena for enhancing the decision support . Simultaneously, rules are extracted using a decision tree, and some ground truth parameters of CPCB are added and ingested to the CEP engine to determine the complex patterns. Consequently, the SPARQL query is used on real-time RDF dataset for fetching the condition of air quality as good, poor, severe, hazardous etc based on complex events detection. For validating the proposed approach various chunks of RDF are used for the deployment of events to the CEP engine, and its performance is examined over time while performing simple and complex queries.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [340]
标题:  Digital Twins: How Far from Ideas to Twins?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14699
作者:  Lu Jingyu
备注:  
Abstract:As a bridge from virtuality to reality, Digital Twin has increased in popularity since proposed. Ideas have been proposed theoretical and practical for digital twins. From theoretical perspective, digital twin is fusion of data mapping between modalities; from practical point of view, digital twin is scenario implementation based on the Internet of Things and models. From these two perspectives, we explore the researches from idea to realization of digital twins and discuss thoroughly.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [341]
标题:  An AIC-based approach for articulating unpredictable problems in open  complex environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14697
作者:  Haider AL-Shareefy,  Michael Butler,  Thai Son Hoang
备注:  S. Bernardi, T. Zoppi (Editors), "Fast Abstracts and Student Forum Proceedings - EDCC 2024 - 19th European Dependable Computing Conference, Leuven, Belgium, 8-11 April 2024"
Abstract:This research paper presents an approach to enhancing the predictive capability of architects in the design and assurance of systems, focusing on systems operating in dynamic and unpredictable environments. By adopting a systems approach, we aim to improve architects' predictive capabilities in designing dependable systems (for example, ML-based systems). An aerospace case study is used to illustrate the approach. Multiple factors (challenges) influencing aircraft detection are identified, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach in a complex operational setting. Our approach primarily aimed to enhance the architect's predictive capability.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [342]
标题:  MOTIV: Visual Exploration of Moral Framing in Social Media
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14696
作者:  Andrew Wentzel,  Lauren Levine,  Vipul Dhariwal,  Zarah Fatemi,  Abarai Bhattacharya,  Barbara Di Eugenio,  Andrew Rojecki,  Elena Zheleva,  G. Elisabeta Marai
备注:  
Abstract:We present a visual computing framework for analyzing moral rhetoric on social media around controversial topics. Using Moral Foundation Theory, we propose a methodology for deconstructing and visualizing the \textit{when}, \textit{where}, and \textit{who} behind each of these moral dimensions as expressed in microblog data. We characterize the design of this framework, developed in collaboration with experts from language processing, communications, and causal inference. Our approach integrates microblog data with multiple sources of geospatial and temporal data, and leverages unsupervised machine learning (generalized additive models) to support collaborative hypothesis discovery and testing. We implement this approach in a system named MOTIV. We illustrate this approach on two problems, one related to Stay-at-home policies during the COVID-19 pandemic, and the other related to the Black Lives Matter movement. Through detailed case studies and discussions with collaborators, we identify several insights discovered regarding the different drivers of moral sentiment in social media. Our results indicate that this visual approach supports rapid, collaborative hypothesis testing, and can help give insights into the underlying moral values behind controversial political issues. Supplemental Material: this https URL
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Graphics (cs.GR); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [343]
标题:  Application of GPT Language Models for Innovation in Activities in  University Teaching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14694
作者:  Manuel de Buenaga,  Francisco Javier Bueno
备注:  15 pages, in spanish language, 4 tables, 5 figures
Abstract:The GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) language models are an artificial intelligence and natural language processing technology that enables automatic text generation. There is a growing interest in applying GPT language models to university teaching in various dimensions. From the perspective of innovation in student and teacher activities, they can provide support in understanding and generating content, problem-solving, as well as personalization and test correction, among others. From the dimension of internationalization, the misuse of these models represents a global problem that requires taking a series of common measures in universities from different geographical areas. In several countries, there has been a review of assessment tools to ensure that work is done by students and not by AI. To this end, we have conducted a detailed experiment in a representative subject of Computer Science such as Software Engineering, which has focused on evaluating the use of ChatGPT as an assistant in theory activities, exercises, and laboratory practices, assessing its potential use as a support tool for both students and teachers.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [344]
标题:  A2CI: A Cloud-based, Service-oriented Geospatial Cyberinfrastructure to  Support Atmospheric Research
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14693
作者:  Wenwen Li,  Hu Shao,  Sizhe Wang,  Xiran Zhou,  Sheng Wu
备注:  
Abstract:Big earth science data offers the scientific community great opportunities. Many more studies at large-scales, over long-terms and at high resolution can now be conducted using the rich information collected by remote sensing satellites, ground-based sensor networks, and even social media input. However, the hundreds of terabytes of information collected and compiled on an hourly basis by NASA and other government agencies present a significant challenge for atmospheric scientists seeking to improve the understanding of the Earth atmospheric system. These challenges include effective discovery, organization, analysis and visualization of large amounts of data. This paper reports the outcomes of an NSF-funded project that developed a geospatial cyberinfrastructure -- the A2CI (Atmospheric Analysis Cyberinfrastructure) -- to support atmospheric research. We first introduce the service-oriented system framework then describe in detail the implementation of the data discovery module, data management module, data integration module, data analysis and visualization modules following the cloud computing principles-Data-as-a-Service, Software-as-a-Service, Platform-as-a-Service and Infrastructure-as-a-Service. We demonstrate the graphic user interface by performing an analysis between Sea Surface Temperature and the intensity of tropical storms in the North Atlantic and Pacific oceans. We expect this work to contribute to the technical advancement of cyberinfrastructure research as well as to the development of an online, collaborative scientific analysis system for atmospheric science.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [345]
标题:  The AI Assessment Scale (AIAS) in action: A pilot implementation of  GenAI supported assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14692
作者:  Leon Furze,  Mike Perkins,  Jasper Roe,  Jason MacVaugh
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid adoption of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) technologies in higher education has raised concerns about academic integrity, assessment practices, and student learning. Banning or blocking GenAI tools has proven ineffective, and punitive approaches ignore the potential benefits of these technologies. This paper presents the findings of a pilot study conducted at British University Vietnam (BUV) exploring the implementation of the Artificial Intelligence Assessment Scale (AIAS), a flexible framework for incorporating GenAI into educational assessments. The AIAS consists of five levels, ranging from 'No AI' to 'Full AI', enabling educators to design assessments that focus on areas requiring human input and critical thinking. Following the implementation of the AIAS, the pilot study results indicate a significant reduction in academic misconduct cases related to GenAI, a 5.9% increase in student attainment across the university, and a 33.3% increase in module passing rates. The AIAS facilitated a shift in pedagogical practices, with faculty members incorporating GenAI tools into their modules and students producing innovative multimodal submissions. The findings suggest that the AIAS can support the effective integration of GenAI in HE, promoting academic integrity while leveraging the technology's potential to enhance learning experiences.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [346]
标题:  Large Language Models and User Trust: Focus on Healthcare
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14691
作者:  Avishek Choudhury,  Zaria Chaudhry
备注:  1 figure
Abstract:This paper explores the evolving relationship between clinician trust in LLMs, the transformation of data sources from predominantly human-generated to AI-generated content, and the subsequent impact on the precision of LLMs and clinician competence. One of the primary concerns identified is the potential feedback loop that arises as LLMs become more reliant on their outputs for learning, which may lead to a degradation in output quality and a reduction in clinician skills due to decreased engagement with fundamental diagnostic processes. While theoretical at this stage, this feedback loop poses a significant challenge as the integration of LLMs in healthcare deepens, emphasizing the need for proactive dialogue and strategic measures to ensure the safe and effective use of LLM technology. Moreover, we delve into the potential risks associated with LLMs' self-referential learning loops and the deskilling of healthcare professionals. The risk of LLMs operating within an echo chamber, where AI-generated content feeds into the learning algorithms, threatens the diversity and quality of the data pool, potentially entrenching biases and reducing the efficacy of LLMs. Concurrently, reliance on LLMs for routine or critical tasks could result in a decline in healthcare providers' diagnostic and thinking skills, particularly affecting the training and development of future professionals.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [347]
标题:  Incorporating Graph Attention Mechanism into Geometric Problem Solving  Based on Deep Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14690
作者:  Xiuqin Zhong,  Shengyuan Yan,  Gongqi Lin,  Hongguang Fu,  Liang Xu,  Siwen Jiang,  Lei Huang,  Wei Fang
备注:  
Abstract:In the context of online education, designing an automatic solver for geometric problems has been considered a crucial step towards general math Artificial Intelligence (AI), empowered by natural language understanding and traditional logical inference. In most instances, problems are addressed by adding auxiliary components such as lines or points. However, adding auxiliary components automatically is challenging due to the complexity in selecting suitable auxiliary components especially when pivotal decisions have to be made. The state-of-the-art performance has been achieved by exhausting all possible strategies from the category library to identify the one with the maximum likelihood. However, an extensive strategy search have to be applied to trade accuracy for ef-ficiency. To add auxiliary components automatically and efficiently, we present deep reinforcement learning framework based on the language model, such as BERT. We firstly apply the graph attention mechanism to reduce the strategy searching space, called AttnStrategy, which only focus on the conclusion-related components. Meanwhile, a novel algorithm, named Automatically Adding Auxiliary Components using Reinforcement Learning framework (A3C-RL), is proposed by forcing an agent to select top strategies, which incorporates the AttnStrategy and BERT as the memory components. Results from extensive experiments show that the proposed A3C-RL algorithm can substantially enhance the average precision by 32.7% compared to the traditional MCTS. In addition, the A3C-RL algorithm outperforms humans on the geometric questions from the annual University Entrance Mathematical Examination of China.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [348]
标题:  Developing and Deploying Industry Standards for Artificial Intelligence  in Education (AIED): Challenges, Strategies, and Future Directions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14689
作者:  Richard Tong,  Haoyang Li,  Joleen Liang,  Qingsong Wen
备注:  12 pages
Abstract:The adoption of Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED) holds the promise of revolutionizing educational practices by offering personalized learning experiences, automating administrative and pedagogical tasks, and reducing the cost of content creation. However, the lack of standardized practices in the development and deployment of AIED solutions has led to fragmented ecosystems, which presents challenges in interoperability, scalability, and ethical governance. This article aims to address the critical need to develop and implement industry standards in AIED, offering a comprehensive analysis of the current landscape, challenges, and strategic approaches to overcome these obstacles. We begin by examining the various applications of AIED in various educational settings and identify key areas lacking in standardization, including system interoperability, ontology mapping, data integration, evaluation, and ethical governance. Then, we propose a multi-tiered framework for establishing robust industry standards for AIED. In addition, we discuss methodologies for the iterative development and deployment of standards, incorporating feedback loops from real-world applications to refine and adapt standards over time. The paper also highlights the role of emerging technologies and pedagogical theories in shaping future standards for AIED. Finally, we outline a strategic roadmap for stakeholders to implement these standards, fostering a cohesive and ethical AIED ecosystem. By establishing comprehensive industry standards, such as those by IEEE Artificial Intelligence Standards Committee (AISC) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO), we can accelerate and scale AIED solutions to improve educational outcomes, ensuring that technological advances align with the principles of inclusivity, fairness, and educational excellence.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [349]
标题:  Kernel Alignment for Unsupervised Feature Selection via Matrix  Factorization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14688
作者:  Ziyuan Lin,  Deanna Needell
备注:  
Abstract:By removing irrelevant and redundant features, feature selection aims to find a good representation of the original features. With the prevalence of unlabeled data, unsupervised feature selection has been proven effective in alleviating the so-called curse of dimensionality. Most existing matrix factorization-based unsupervised feature selection methods are built upon subspace learning, but they have limitations in capturing nonlinear structural information among features. It is well-known that kernel techniques can capture nonlinear structural information. In this paper, we construct a model by integrating kernel functions and kernel alignment, which can be equivalently characterized as a matrix factorization problem. However, such an extension raises another issue: the algorithm performance heavily depends on the choice of kernel, which is often unknown a priori. Therefore, we further propose a multiple kernel-based learning method. By doing so, our model can learn both linear and nonlinear similarity information and automatically generate the most appropriate kernel. Experimental analysis on real-world data demonstrates that the two proposed methods outperform other classic and state-of-the-art unsupervised feature selection methods in terms of clustering results and redundancy reduction in almost all datasets tested.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [350]
标题:  On the Performance of Imputation Techniques for Missing Values on  Healthcare Datasets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14687
作者:  Luke Oluwaseye Joel,  Wesley Doorsamy,  Babu Sena Paul
备注:  
Abstract:Missing values or data is one popular characteristic of real-world datasets, especially healthcare data. This could be frustrating when using machine learning algorithms on such datasets, simply because most machine learning models perform poorly in the presence of missing values. The aim of this study is to compare the performance of seven imputation techniques, namely Mean imputation, Median Imputation, Last Observation carried Forward (LOCF) imputation, K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) imputation, Interpolation imputation, Missforest imputation, and Multiple imputation by Chained Equations (MICE), on three healthcare datasets. Some percentage of missing values - 10\%, 15\%, 20\% and 25\% - were introduced into the dataset, and the imputation techniques were employed to impute these missing values. The comparison of their performance was evaluated by using root mean squared error (RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE). The results show that Missforest imputation performs the best followed by MICE imputation. Additionally, we try to determine whether it is better to perform feature selection before imputation or vice versa by using the following metrics - the recall, precision, f1-score and accuracy. Due to the fact that there are few literature on this and some debate on the subject among researchers, we hope that the results from this experiment will encourage data scientists and researchers to perform imputation first before feature selection when dealing with data containing missing values.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [351]
标题:  Evaluating Pedagogical Incentives in Undergraduate Computing: A Mixed  Methods Approach Using Learning Analytics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14686
作者:  Laura J. Johnston,  Takoua Jendoubi
备注:  5 pages, 1 figure. Accepted by IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference 2024
Abstract:In the context of higher education's evolving dynamics post-COVID-19, this paper assesses the impact of new pedagogical incentives implemented in a first-year undergraduate computing module at University College London. We employ a mixed methods approach, combining learning analytics with qualitative data, to evaluate the effectiveness of these incentives on increasing student engagement. A longitudinal overview of resource interactions is mapped through Bayesian network analysis of Moodle activity logs from 204 students. This analysis identifies early resource engagement as a predictive indicator of continued engagement while also suggesting that the new incentives disproportionately benefit highly engaged students. Focus group discussions complement this analysis, providing insights into student perceptions of the pedagogical changes and the module design. These qualitative findings underscore the challenge of sustaining engagement through the new incentives and highlight the importance of communication in blended learning environments. Our paper introduces an interpretable and actionable model for student engagement, which integrates objective, data-driven analysis with students' perspectives. This model provides educators with a tool to evaluate and improve instructional strategies. By demonstrating the effectiveness of our mixed methods approach in capturing the intricacies of student behaviour in digital learning environments, we underscore the model's potential to improve online pedagogical practices across diverse educational settings.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [352]
标题:  Cyclical Log Annealing as a Learning Rate Scheduler
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14685
作者:  Philip Naveen
备注:  
Abstract:A learning rate scheduler is a predefined set of instructions for varying search stepsizes during model training processes. This paper introduces a new logarithmic method using harsh restarting of step sizes through stochastic gradient descent. Cyclical log annealing implements the restart pattern more aggressively to maybe allow the usage of more greedy algorithms on the online convex optimization framework. The algorithm was tested on the CIFAR-10 image datasets, and seemed to perform analogously with cosine annealing on large transformer-enhanced residual neural networks. Future experiments would involve testing the scheduler in generative adversarial networks and finding the best parameters for the scheduler with more experiments.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [353]
标题:  FOCIL: Finetune-and-Freeze for Online Class Incremental Learning by  Training Randomly Pruned Sparse Experts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14684
作者:  Murat Onur Yildirim,  Elif Ceren Gok Yildirim,  Decebal Constantin Mocanu,  Joaquin Vanschoren
备注:  
Abstract:Class incremental learning (CIL) in an online continual learning setting strives to acquire knowledge on a series of novel classes from a data stream, using each data point only once for training. This is more realistic compared to offline modes, where it is assumed that all data from novel class(es) is readily available. Current online CIL approaches store a subset of the previous data which creates heavy overhead costs in terms of both memory and computation, as well as privacy issues. In this paper, we propose a new online CIL approach called FOCIL. It fine-tunes the main architecture continually by training a randomly pruned sparse subnetwork for each task. Then, it freezes the trained connections to prevent forgetting. FOCIL also determines the sparsity level and learning rate per task adaptively and ensures (almost) zero forgetting across all tasks without storing any replay data. Experimental results on 10-Task CIFAR100, 20-Task CIFAR100, and 100-Task TinyImagenet, demonstrate that our method outperforms the SOTA by a large margin. The code is publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [354]
标题:  A Moral Imperative: The Need for Continual Superalignment of Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14683
作者:  Gokul Puthumanaillam,  Manav Vora,  Pranay Thangeda,  Melkior Ornik
备注:  
Abstract:This paper examines the challenges associated with achieving life-long superalignment in AI systems, particularly large language models (LLMs). Superalignment is a theoretical framework that aspires to ensure that superintelligent AI systems act in accordance with human values and goals. Despite its promising vision, we argue that achieving superalignment requires substantial changes in the current LLM architectures due to their inherent limitations in comprehending and adapting to the dynamic nature of these human ethics and evolving global scenarios. We dissect the challenges of encoding an ever-changing spectrum of human values into LLMs, highlighting the discrepancies between static AI models and the dynamic nature of human societies. To illustrate these challenges, we analyze two distinct examples: one demonstrates a qualitative shift in human values, while the other presents a quantifiable change. Through these examples, we illustrate how LLMs, constrained by their training data, fail to align with contemporary human values and scenarios. The paper concludes by exploring potential strategies to address and possibly mitigate these alignment discrepancies, suggesting a path forward in the pursuit of more adaptable and responsive AI systems.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [355]
标题:  Deep Generative Domain Adaptation with Temporal Relation Knowledge for  Cross-User Activity Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14682
作者:  Xiaozhou Ye,  Kevin I-Kai Wang
备注:  
Abstract:In human activity recognition (HAR), the assumption that training and testing data are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) often fails, particularly in cross-user scenarios where data distributions vary significantly. This discrepancy highlights the limitations of conventional domain adaptation methods in HAR, which typically overlook the inherent temporal relations in time-series data. To bridge this gap, our study introduces a Conditional Variational Autoencoder with Universal Sequence Mapping (CVAE-USM) approach, which addresses the unique challenges of time-series domain adaptation in HAR by relaxing the i.i.d. assumption and leveraging temporal relations to align data distributions effectively across different users. This method combines the strengths of Variational Autoencoder (VAE) and Universal Sequence Mapping (USM) to capture and utilize common temporal patterns between users for improved activity recognition. Our results, evaluated on two public HAR datasets (OPPT and PAMAP2), demonstrate that CVAE-USM outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods, offering a more accurate and generalizable solution for cross-user activity recognition.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [356]
标题:  AI Ethics: A Bibliometric Analysis, Critical Issues, and Key Gaps
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14681
作者:  Di Kevin Gao (1,2),  Andrew Haverly (1),  Sudip Mittal (1),  Jiming Wu (2),  Jingdao Chen (1) ((1) Mississippi State University, (2) California State University - East Bay)
备注:  
Abstract:Artificial intelligence (AI) ethics has emerged as a burgeoning yet pivotal area of scholarly research. This study conducts a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of the AI ethics literature over the past two decades. The analysis reveals a discernible tripartite progression, characterized by an incubation phase, followed by a subsequent phase focused on imbuing AI with human-like attributes, culminating in a third phase emphasizing the development of human-centric AI systems. After that, they present seven key AI ethics issues, encompassing the Collingridge dilemma, the AI status debate, challenges associated with AI transparency and explainability, privacy protection complications, considerations of justice and fairness, concerns about algocracy and human enfeeblement, and the issue of superintelligence. Finally, they identify two notable research gaps in AI ethics regarding the large ethics model (LEM) and AI identification and extend an invitation for further scholarly research.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [357]
标题:  Trust in AI: Progress, Challenges, and Future Directions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14680
作者:  Saleh Afroogh,  Ali Akbari,  Evan Malone,  Mohammadali Kargar,  Hananeh Alambeigi
备注:  
Abstract:The increasing use of artificial intelligence (AI) systems in our daily life through various applications, services, and products explains the significance of trust/distrust in AI from a user perspective. AI-driven systems (as opposed to other technologies) have ubiquitously diffused in our life not only as some beneficial tools to be used by human agents but also are going to be substitutive agents on our behalf, or manipulative minds that would influence human thought, decision, and agency. Trust/distrust in AI plays the role of a regulator and could significantly control the level of this diffusion, as trust can increase, and distrust may reduce the rate of adoption of AI. Recently, varieties of studies have paid attention to the variant dimension of trust/distrust in AI, and its relevant considerations. In this systematic literature review, after conceptualization of trust in the current AI literature review, we will investigate trust in different types of human-Machine interaction, and its impact on technology acceptance in different domains. In addition to that, we propose a taxonomy of technical (i.e., safety, accuracy, robustness) and non-technical axiological (i.e., ethical, legal, and mixed) trustworthiness metrics, and some trustworthy measurements. Moreover, we examine some major trust-breakers in AI (e.g., autonomy and dignity threat), and trust makers; and propose some future directions and probable solutions for the transition to a trustworthy AI.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [358]
标题:  Continual Learning by Three-Phase Consolidation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14679
作者:  Davide Maltoni,  Lorenzo Pellegrini
备注:  13 pages, 2 figures, 8 tables. Preprint under review
Abstract:TPC (Three-Phase Consolidation) is here introduced as a simple but effective approach to continually learn new classes (and/or instances of known classes) while controlling forgetting of previous knowledge. Each experience (a.k.a. task) is learned in three phases characterized by different rules and learning dynamics, aimed at removing the class-bias problem (due to class unbalancing) and limiting gradient-based corrections to prevent forgetting of underrepresented classes. Several experiments on complex datasets demonstrate its accuracy and efficiency advantages over competitive existing approaches. The algorithm and all the results presented in this paper are fully reproducible thanks to its publication on the Avalanche open framework for continual learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [359]
标题:  Towards a Framework for Deep Learning Certification in Safety-Critical  Applications Using Inherently Safe Design and Run-Time Error Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14678
作者:  Romeo Valentin
备注:  Master Thesis
Abstract:Although an ever-growing number of applications employ deep learning based systems for prediction, decision-making, or state estimation, almost no certification processes have been established that would allow such systems to be deployed in safety-critical applications. In this work we consider real-world problems arising in aviation and other safety-critical areas, and investigate their requirements for a certified model. To this end, we investigate methodologies from the machine learning research community aimed towards verifying robustness and reliability of deep learning systems, and evaluate these methodologies with regard to their applicability to real-world problems. Then, we establish a new framework towards deep learning certification based on (i) inherently safe design, and (ii) run-time error detection. Using a concrete use case from aviation, we show how deep learning models can recover disentangled variables through the use of weakly-supervised representation learning. We argue that such a system design is inherently less prone to common model failures, and can be verified to encode underlying mechanisms governing the data. Then, we investigate four techniques related to the run-time safety of a model, namely (i) uncertainty quantification, (ii) out-of-distribution detection, (iii) feature collapse, and (iv) adversarial attacks. We evaluate each for their applicability and formulate a set of desiderata that a certified model should fulfill. Finally, we propose a novel model structure that exhibits all desired properties discussed in this work, and is able to make regression and uncertainty predictions, as well as detect out-of-distribution inputs, while requiring no regression labels to train. We conclude with a discussion of the current state and expected future progress of deep learning certification, and its industrial and social implications.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [360]
标题:  An Elemental Ethics for Artificial Intelligence: Water as Resistance  Within AI's Value Chain
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14677
作者:  Sebastian Lehuede
备注:  
Abstract:Research and activism have increasingly denounced the problematic environmental record of the infrastructure and value chain underpinning Artificial Intelligence (AI). Water-intensive data centres, polluting mineral extraction and e-waste dumping are incontrovertibly part of AI's footprint. In this article, I turn to areas affected by AI-fuelled environmental harm and identify an ethics of resistance emerging from local activists, which I term 'elemental ethics'. Elemental ethics interrogates the AI value chain's problematic relationship with the elements that make up the world, critiques the undermining of local and ancestral approaches to nature and reveals the vital and quotidian harms engendered by so-called intelligent systems. While this ethics is emerging from grassroots and Indigenous groups, it echoes recent calls from environmental philosophy to reconnect with the environment via the elements. In empirical terms, this article looks at groups in Chile resisting a Google data centre project in Santiago and lithium extraction (used for rechargeable batteries) in Lickan Antay Indigenous territory, Atacama Desert. As I show, elemental ethics can complement top-down, utilitarian and quantitative approaches to AI ethics and sustainable AI as well as interrogate whose lived experience and well-being counts in debates on AI extinction.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [361]
标题:  Unified Uncertainty Estimation for Cognitive Diagnosis Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14676
作者:  Fei Wang,  Qi Liu,  Enhong Chen,  Chuanren Liu,  Zhenya Huang,  Jinze Wu,  Shijin Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Cognitive diagnosis models have been widely used in different areas, especially intelligent education, to measure users' proficiency levels on knowledge concepts, based on which users can get personalized instructions. As the measurement is not always reliable due to the weak links of the models and data, the uncertainty of measurement also offers important information for decisions. However, the research on the uncertainty estimation lags behind that on advanced model structures for cognitive diagnosis. Existing approaches have limited efficiency and leave an academic blank for sophisticated models which have interaction function parameters (e.g., deep learning-based models). To address these problems, we propose a unified uncertainty estimation approach for a wide range of cognitive diagnosis models. Specifically, based on the idea of estimating the posterior distributions of cognitive diagnosis model parameters, we first provide a unified objective function for mini-batch based optimization that can be more efficiently applied to a wide range of models and large datasets. Then, we modify the reparameterization approach in order to adapt to parameters defined on different domains. Furthermore, we decompose the uncertainty of diagnostic parameters into data aspect and model aspect, which better explains the source of uncertainty. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method is effective and can provide useful insights into the uncertainty of cognitive diagnosis.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [362]
标题:  Investigating the Impact of Project Risks on Employee Turnover  Intentions in the IT Industry of Pakistan
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14675
作者:  Ghalib Ahmed Tahir,  Murtaza Ashraf
备注:  
Abstract:Employee turnover remains a pressing issue within high-tech sectors such as IT firms and research centers, where organizational success heavily relies on the skills of their workforce. Intense competition and a scarcity of skilled professionals in the industry contribute to a perpetual demand for highly qualified employees, posing challenges for organizations to retain talent. While numerous studies have explored various factors affecting employee turnover in these industries, their focus often remains on overarching trends rather than specific organizational contexts. In particular, within the software industry, where projectspecific risks can significantly impact project success and timely delivery, understanding their influence on job satisfaction and turnover intentions is crucial. This study aims to investigate the influence of project risks in the IT industry on job satisfaction and employee turnover intentions. Furthermore, it examines the role of both external and internal social links in shaping perceptions of job satisfaction.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [363]
标题:  Packaging Up Media Mix Modeling: An Introduction to Robyn's Open-Source  Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14674
作者:  Gufeng Zhou,  Igor Skokan,  Julian Runge
备注:  
Abstract:While attribution of user behavior across apps and websites had led to unseen levels of determinism in digital advertising measurement, privacy-centric changes to the digital data landscape are bringing probabilistic techniques such as marketing and media mix modeling en vogue again. Many small and midsize advertisers lack the scale and resources to invest in advanced proprietary modeling efforts that would usually require specific expertise and a team of several data scientists. To facilitate broad successful adoption of media mix modeling for digital advertising measurement, marketing data scientists at Meta started the open-source computational package Robyn. This article presents architectural components and choices in Robyn and discusses how Robyn aims to be packaged against biases and for organizational acceptance. As an open-source package with wide adoption and a highly active community, Robyn undergoes continual development. In this vein, what is described in this article should not be seen as conclusive solutions but as an outline of pathways that the Robyn community has embarked on. The article aims to provide a structured introduction to these pathways as a basis for feedback from marketing data scientists, to ensure Robyn's ongoing development aligns with users' needs.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [364]
标题:  Can 'Robots Won't Save Japan' Save Robotics? Reviewing an Ethnography of  Eldercare Automation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14673
作者:  Andrew Hundt
备注:  8 pages
Abstract:Imagine activating new robots meant to aid staff in an elder care facility, only to discover the robots are counterproductive. They undermine the most meaningful moments of the jobs and increase staff workloads, because robots demand care too. Eventually, they're returned. This vignette captures key elements of James Adrian Wright's ethnography, "Robots Won't Save Japan", an essential resource for understanding the state of elder care robotics. Wright's rich ethnographic interviews and observations challenge the prevailing funding, research, and development paradigms for robotics. Elder care residents tend to be Disabled, so this review article augments Wrights' insights with overlooked perspectives from Disability and Robotics research. This article highlights how care recipients' portrayal suggests that Paro, a plush robot seal, might perform better than the care team and author indicated -- leading to insights that support urgent paradigm shifts in elder care, ethnographic studies, and robotics. It presents some of the stronger technical status quo counter-arguments to the book's core narratives, then confronts their own assumptions. Furthermore, it explores exceptional cases where Japanese and international roboticists attend to care workers and recipients, justifying key arguments in Wright's compelling book. Finally, it addresses how "Robots won't save Japan" will save Robotics.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [365]
标题:  Understanding the Transit Gap: A Comparative Study of On-Demand Bus  Services and Urban Climate Resilience in South End, Charlotte, NC and  Avondale, Chattanooga, TN
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14671
作者:  Sanaz Sadat Hosseini,  Babak Rahimi Ardabili,  Mona Azarbayjani,  Srinivas Pulugurtha,  Hamed Tabkhi
备注:  6 pages, 4 figures, Recently accepted by the PLEA 2024 Conference for Sustainable Architecture and Urban Design (Re-Thinking Resilience), Wroclaw, Poland
Abstract:Urban design significantly impacts sustainability, particularly in the context of public transit efficiency and carbon emissions reduction. This study explores two neighborhoods with distinct urban designs: South End, Charlotte, NC, featuring a dynamic mixed-use urban design pattern, and Avondale, Chattanooga, TN, with a residential suburban grid layout. Using the TRANSIT-GYM tool, we assess the impact of increased bus utilization in these different urban settings on traffic and CO2 emissions. Our results highlight the critical role of urban design and planning in transit system efficiency. In South End, the mixed-use design led to more substantial emission reductions, indicating that urban layout can significantly influence public transit outcomes. Tailored strategies that consider the unique urban design elements are essential for climate resilience. Notably, doubling bus utilization decreased daily emissions by 10.18% in South End and 8.13% in Avondale, with a corresponding reduction in overall traffic. A target of 50% bus utilization saw emissions drop by 21.45% in South End and 14.50% in Avondale. At an idealistic goal of 70% bus utilization, South End and Avondale witnessed emission reductions of 37.22% and 27.80%, respectively. These insights are crucial for urban designers and policymakers in developing sustainable urban landscapes.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)

**编号**: [366]
标题:  Electric Vehicle Enquiry (EVE) Pilot
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14670
作者:  Seun Osonuga,  Frederic Wurtz,  Benoit Delinchant
备注:  
Abstract:This data paper presents the dataset from a study on the use of electric vehicles (EVs). This dataset covers the first dataset collected in this study: the usage data from a Renault Zoe over 3 years. The process of collection of the dataset, its treatment, and descriptions of all the included variables are detailed. The collection of this dataset represents an iteration of participative research in the personal mobility domain as the dataset was collected with low-cost commercially available equipment and open-source software. Some of the challenges of providing the dataset are also discussed: the most pertinent being the intermittent nature of data collection as an android phone and OBDII adapter were used to collect the dataset.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [367]
标题:  Large-Scale Evaluation of Mobility, Technology and Demand Scenarios in  the Chicago Region Using POLARIS
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14669
作者:  Joshua Auld,  Jamie Cook,  Krishna Murthy Gurumurthy,  Nazmul Khan,  Charbel Mansour,  Aymeric Rousseau,  Olcay Sahin,  Felipe de Souza,  Omer Verbas,  Natalia Zuniga-Garcia
备注:  
Abstract:Rapid technological progress and innovation in the areas of vehicle connectivity, automation and electrification, new modes of shared and alternative mobility, and advanced transportation system demand and supply management strategies, have motivated numerous questions and studies regarding the potential impact on key performance and equity metrics. Several of these areas of development may or may not have a synergistic outcome on the overall benefits such as reduction in congestion and travel times. In this study, the use of an end-to-end modeling workflow centered around an activity-based agent-based travel demand forecasting tool called POLARIS is explored to provide insights on the effects of several different technology deployments and operational policies in combination for the Chicago region. The objective of the research was to explore the direct impacts and observe any interactions between the various policy and technology scenarios to help better characterize and evaluate their potential future benefits. We analyze system outcome metrics on mobility, energy and emissions, equity and environmental justice and overall efficiency for a scenario design of experiments that looks at combinations of supply interventions (congestion pricing, transit expansion, tnc policy, off-hours freight policy, connected signal optimization) for different potential demand scenarios defined by e-commerce and on-demand delivery engagement, and market penetration of electric vehicles. We found different combinations of strategies that can reduce overall travel times up to 7% and increase system efficiency up to 53% depending on how various metrics are prioritized. The results demonstrate the importance of considering various interventions jointly.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [368]
标题:  Predicting Learning Performance with Large Language Models: A Study in  Adult Literacy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14668
作者:  Liang Zhang,  Jionghao Lin,  Conrad Borchers,  John Sabatini,  John Hollander,  Meng Cao,  Xiangen Hu
备注:  26TH International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction
Abstract:Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITSs) have significantly enhanced adult literacy training, a key factor for societal participation, employment opportunities, and lifelong learning. Our study investigates the application of advanced AI models, including Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4, for predicting learning performance in adult literacy programs in ITSs. This research is motivated by the potential of LLMs to predict learning performance based on its inherent reasoning and computational capabilities. By using reading comprehension datasets from the ITS, AutoTutor, we evaluate the predictive capabilities of GPT-4 versus traditional machine learning methods in predicting learning performance through five-fold cross-validation techniques. Our findings show that the GPT-4 presents the competitive predictive abilities with traditional machine learning methods such as Bayesian Knowledge Tracing, Performance Factor Analysis, Sparse Factor Analysis Lite (SPARFA-Lite), tensor factorization and eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost). While XGBoost (trained on local machine) outperforms GPT-4 in predictive accuracy, GPT-4-selected XGBoost and its subsequent tuning on the GPT-4 platform demonstrates superior performance compared to local machine execution. Moreover, our investigation into hyper-parameter tuning by GPT-4 versus grid-search suggests comparable performance, albeit with less stability in the automated approach, using XGBoost as the case study. Our study contributes to the field by highlighting the potential of integrating LLMs with traditional machine learning models to enhance predictive accuracy and personalize adult literacy education, setting a foundation for future research in applying LLMs within ITSs.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [369]
标题:  Weaponization of Conscience in Cybercrime and Online Fraud: A Novel  Systems Theory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14667
作者:  Michelle Espinoza
备注:  
Abstract:This article introduces the concept of weaponization of conscience as a complex system and tactic employed by fraudsters to camouflage their activity, coerce others, or to deceive their victims. This study adopts a conceptual approach, drawing from the theoretical underpinnings of military propaganda and psychological operations doctrines and adapting them to serve as a lens through which to understand and defend against weaponization of conscience.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [370]
标题:  SyllabusQA: A Course Logistics Question Answering Dataset
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14666
作者:  Nigel Fernandez,  Alexander Scarlatos,  Andrew Lan
备注:  
Abstract:Automated teaching assistants and chatbots have significant potential to reduce the workload of human instructors, especially for logistics-related question answering, which is important to students yet repetitive for instructors. However, due to privacy concerns, there is a lack of publicly available datasets. We introduce SyllabusQA, an open-source dataset with 63 real course syllabi covering 36 majors, containing 5,078 open-ended course logistics-related question-answer pairs that are diverse in both question types and answer formats. Since many logistics-related questions contain critical information like the date of an exam, it is important to evaluate the factuality of answers. We benchmark several strong baselines on this task, from large language model prompting to retrieval-augmented generation. We find that despite performing close to humans on traditional metrics of textual similarity, there remains a significant gap between automated approaches and humans in terms of fact precision.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [371]
标题:  Sora OpenAI's Prelude: Social Media Perspectives on Sora OpenAI and the  Future of AI Video Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14665
作者:  Reza Hadi Mogavi,  Derrick Wang,  Joseph Tu,  Hilda Hadan,  Sabrina A. Sgandurra,  Pan Hui,  Lennart E. Nacke
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid advancement of Generative AI (Gen-AI) is transforming Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), with significant implications across various sectors. This study investigates the public's perception of Sora OpenAI, a pioneering Gen-AI video generation tool, via social media discussions on Reddit before its release. It centers on two main questions: the envisioned applications and the concerns related to Sora's integration. The analysis forecasts positive shifts in content creation, predicting that Sora will democratize video marketing and innovate game development by making video production more accessible and economical. Conversely, there are concerns about deepfakes and the potential for disinformation, underscoring the need for strategies to address disinformation and bias. This paper contributes to the Gen-AI discourse by fostering discussion on current and future capabilities, enriching the understanding of public expectations, and establishing a temporal benchmark for user anticipation. This research underscores the necessity for informed, ethical approaches to AI development and integration, ensuring that technological advancements align with societal values and user needs.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [372]
标题:  ClickTree: A Tree-based Method for Predicting Math Students' Performance  Based on Clickstream Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14664
作者:  Narjes Rohani,  Behnam Rohani,  Areti Manataki
备注:  Submitted to the Journal of Educational Data Mining
Abstract:The prediction of student performance and the analysis of students' learning behavior play an important role in enhancing online courses. By analysing a massive amount of clickstream data that captures student behavior, educators can gain valuable insights into the factors that influence academic outcomes and identify areas of improvement in courses. In this study, we developed ClickTree, a tree-based methodology, to predict student performance in mathematical assignments based on students' clickstream data. We extracted a set of features, including problem-level, assignment-level and student-level features, from the extensive clickstream data and trained a CatBoost tree to predict whether a student successfully answers a problem in an assignment. The developed method achieved an AUC of 0.78844 in the Educational Data Mining Cup 2023 and ranked second in the competition. Furthermore, our results indicate that students encounter more difficulties in the problem types that they must select a subset of answers from a given set as well as problem subjects of Algebra II. Additionally, students who performed well in answering end-unit assignment problems engaged more with in-unit assignments and answered more problems correctly, while those who struggled had higher tutoring request rate. The proposed method can be utilized to improve students' learning experiences, and the above insights can be integrated into mathematical courses to enhance students' learning outcomes.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Applications (stat.AP)

**编号**: [373]
标题:  Machine Learning Predicts Upper Secondary Education Dropout as Early as  the End of Primary School
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14663
作者:  Maria Psyridou,  Fabi Prezja,  Minna Torppa,  Marja-Kristiina Lerkkanen,  Anna-Maija Poikkeus,  Kati Vasalampi
备注:  
Abstract:Education plays a pivotal role in alleviating poverty, driving economic growth, and empowering individuals, thereby significantly influencing societal and personal development. However, the persistent issue of school dropout poses a significant challenge, with its effects extending beyond the individual. While previous research has employed machine learning for dropout classification, these studies often suffer from a short-term focus, relying on data collected only a few years into the study period. This study expanded the modeling horizon by utilizing a 13-year longitudinal dataset, encompassing data from kindergarten to Grade 9. Our methodology incorporated a comprehensive range of parameters, including students' academic and cognitive skills, motivation, behavior, well-being, and officially recorded dropout data. The machine learning models developed in this study demonstrated notable classification ability, achieving a mean area under the curve (AUC) of 0.61 with data up to Grade 6 and an improved AUC of 0.65 with data up to Grade 9. Further data collection and independent correlational and causal analyses are crucial. In future iterations, such models may have the potential to proactively support educators' processes and existing protocols for identifying at-risk students, thereby potentially aiding in the reinvention of student retention and success strategies and ultimately contributing to improved educational outcomes.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [374]
标题:  Case Studies of AI Policy Development in Africa
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14662
作者:  Kadijatou Diallo,  Jonathan Smith,  Chinasa T. Okolo,  Dorcas Nyamwaya,  Jonas Kgomo,  Richard Ngamita
备注:  
Abstract:Artificial Intelligence (AI) requires new ways of evaluating national technology use and strategy for African nations. We conduct a survey of existing 'readiness' assessments both for general digital adoption and for AI policy in particular. We conclude that existing global readiness assessments do not fully capture African states' progress in AI readiness and lay the groundwork for how assessments can be better used for the African context. We consider the extent to which these indicators map to the African context and what these indicators miss in capturing African states' on-the-ground work in meeting AI capability. Through case studies of four African nations of diverse geographic and economic dimensions, we identify nuances missed by global assessments and offer high-level policy considerations for how states can best improve their AI readiness standards and prepare their societies to capture the benefits of AI.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [375]
标题:  Towards Modeling Learner Performance with Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14661
作者:  Seyed Parsa Neshaei,  Richard Lee Davis,  Adam Hazimeh,  Bojan Lazarevski,  Pierre Dillenbourg,  Tanja Käser
备注:  12 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Recent work exploring the capabilities of pre-trained large language models (LLMs) has demonstrated their ability to act as general pattern machines by completing complex token sequences representing a wide array of tasks, including time-series prediction and robot control. This paper investigates whether the pattern recognition and sequence modeling capabilities of LLMs can be extended to the domain of knowledge tracing, a critical component in the development of intelligent tutoring systems (ITSs) that tailor educational experiences by predicting learner performance over time. In an empirical evaluation across multiple real-world datasets, we compare two approaches to using LLMs for this task, zero-shot prompting and model fine-tuning, with existing, non-LLM approaches to knowledge tracing. While LLM-based approaches do not achieve state-of-the-art performance, fine-tuned LLMs surpass the performance of naive baseline models and perform on par with standard Bayesian Knowledge Tracing approaches across multiple metrics. These findings suggest that the pattern recognition capabilities of LLMs can be used to model complex learning trajectories, opening a novel avenue for applying LLMs to educational contexts. The paper concludes with a discussion of the implications of these findings for future research, suggesting that further refinements and a deeper understanding of LLMs' predictive mechanisms could lead to enhanced performance in knowledge tracing tasks.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [376]
标题:  Machina Economicus: A New Paradigm for Prosumers in the Energy Internet  of Smart Cities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14660
作者:  Luyang Hou,  Jun Yan,  Yuankai Wu,  Chun Wang,  Tie Qiu
备注:  25 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:Energy Internet (EI) is emerging as new share economy platform for flexible local energy supplies in smart cities. Empowered by the Internet-of-Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI), EI aims to unlock peer-to-peer energy trading and sharing among prosumers, who can adeptly switch roles between providers and consumers in localized energy markets with rooftop photovoltaic panels, vehicle-to-everything technologies, packetized energy management, etc. The integration of prosumers in EI, however, will encounter many challenges in modelling, analyzing, and designing an efficient, economic, and social-optimal platform for energy sharing, calling for advanced AI/IoT-based solutions to resource optimization, information exchange, and interaction protocols in the context of the share economy. In this study, we aim to introduce a recently emerged paradigm, Machina Economicus, to investigate the economic rationality in modelling, analysis, and optimization of AI/IoT-based EI prosumer behaviors. The new paradigm, built upon the theory of machine learning and mechanism design, will offer new angles to investigate the selfishness of AI through a game-theoretic perspective, revealing potential competition and collaborations resulting from the self-adaptive learning and decision-making capacity. This study will focus on how the introduction of AI will reshape prosumer behaviors on the EI, and how this paradigm will reveal new research questions and directions when AI meets the share economy. With an extensive case analysis in the literature, we will also shed light on potential solutions for advancements of AI in future smart cities.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [377]
标题:  Social Intelligence Data Infrastructure: Structuring the Present and  Navigating the Future
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14659
作者:  Minzhi Li,  Weiyan Shi,  Caleb Ziems,  Diyi Yang
备注:  
Abstract:As Natural Language Processing (NLP) systems become increasingly integrated into human social life, these technologies will need to increasingly rely on social intelligence. Although there are many valuable datasets that benchmark isolated dimensions of social intelligence, there does not yet exist any body of work to join these threads into a cohesive subfield in which researchers can quickly identify research gaps and future directions. Towards this goal, we build a Social AI Data Infrastructure, which consists of a comprehensive social AI taxonomy and a data library of 480 NLP datasets. Our infrastructure allows us to analyze existing dataset efforts, and also evaluate language models' performance in different social intelligence aspects. Our analyses demonstrate its utility in enabling a thorough understanding of current data landscape and providing a holistic perspective on potential directions for future dataset development. We show there is a need for multifaceted datasets, increased diversity in language and culture, more long-tailed social situations, and more interactive data in future social intelligence data efforts.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [378]
标题:  Identifying Potential Inlets of Man in the Artificial Intelligence  Development Process
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14658
作者:  Deja Workman,  Christopher L. Dancy
备注:  Published in CSCW '23 Conference Proceedings. 7 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:In this paper we hope to identify how the typical or standard artificial intelligence development process encourages or facilitates the creation of racialized technologies. We begin by understanding Sylvia Wynter's definition of the biocentric Man genre and its exclusion of Blackness from humanness. We follow this with outlining what we consider to be the typical steps for developing an AI-based technology, which we have broken down into 6 stages: identifying a problem, development process and management tool selection, dataset development and data processing, model development, deployment and risk assessment, and integration and monitoring. The goal of this paper is to better understand how Wynter's biocentric Man is being represented and reinforced by the technologies we are producing in the AI lifecycle and by the lifecycle itself; we hope to identify ways in which the distinction of Blackness from the "ideal" human leads to perpetual punishment at the hands of these technologies. By deconstructing this development process, we can potentially identify ways in which humans in general have not been prioritized and how those affects are disproportionately affecting marginalized people. We hope to offer solutions that will encourage changes in the AI development cycle.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [379]
标题:  A Synergistic Approach to Wildfire Prevention and Management Using AI,  ML, and 5G Technology in the United States
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14657
作者:  Stanley Chinedu Okoro,  Alexander Lopez,  Austine Unuriode
备注:  
Abstract:Over the past few years, wildfires have become a worldwide environmental emergency, resulting in substantial harm to natural habitats and playing a part in the acceleration of climate change. Wildfire management methods involve prevention, response, and recovery efforts. Despite improvements in detection techniques, the rising occurrence of wildfires demands creative solutions for prompt identification and effective control. This research investigates proactive methods for detecting and handling wildfires in the United States, utilizing Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), and 5G technology. The specific objective of this research covers proactive detection and prevention of wildfires using advanced technology; Active monitoring and mapping with remote sensing and signaling leveraging on 5G technology; and Advanced response mechanisms to wildfire using drones and IOT devices. This study was based on secondary data collected from government databases and analyzed using descriptive statistics. In addition, past publications were reviewed through content analysis, and narrative synthesis was used to present the observations from various studies. The results showed that developing new technology presents an opportunity to detect and manage wildfires proactively. Utilizing advanced technology could save lives and prevent significant economic losses caused by wildfires. Various methods, such as AI-enabled remote sensing and 5G-based active monitoring, can enhance proactive wildfire detection and management. In addition, super intelligent drones and IOT devices can be used for safer responses to wildfires. This forms the core of the recommendation to the fire Management Agencies and the government.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [380]
标题:  ChatGPT in Veterinary Medicine: A Practical Guidance of Generative  Artificial Intelligence in Clinics, Education, and Research
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14654
作者:  Candice P. Chu
备注:  
Abstract:ChatGPT, the most accessible generative artificial intelligence (AI) tool, offers considerable potential for veterinary medicine, yet a dedicated review of its specific applications is lacking. This review concisely synthesizes the latest research and practical applications of ChatGPT within the clinical, educational, and research domains of veterinary medicine. It intends to provide specific guidance and actionable examples of how generative AI can be directly utilized by veterinary professionals without a programming background. For practitioners, ChatGPT can extract patient data, generate progress notes, and potentially assist in diagnosing complex cases. Veterinary educators can create custom GPTs for student support, while students can utilize ChatGPT for exam preparation. ChatGPT can aid in academic writing tasks in research, but veterinary publishers have set specific requirements for authors to follow. Despite its transformative potential, careful use is essential to avoid pitfalls like hallucination. This review addresses ethical considerations, provides learning resources, and offers tangible examples to guide responsible implementation. Carefully selected, up-to-date links to platforms that host large language models are provided for advanced readers with programming capability. A table of key takeaways was provided to summarize this review. By highlighting potential benefits and limitations, this review equips veterinarians, educators, and researchers to harness the power of ChatGPT effectively.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [381]
标题:  Between Copyright and Computer Science: The Law and Ethics of Generative  AI
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14653
作者:  Deven R. Desai,  Mark Riedl
备注:  63 pages, under review in law review journals
Abstract:Copyright and computer science continue to intersect and clash, but they can coexist. The advent of new technologies such as digitization of visual and aural creations, sharing technologies, search engines, social media offerings, and more challenge copyright-based industries and reopen questions about the reach of copyright law. Breakthroughs in artificial intelligence research, especially Large Language Models that leverage copyrighted material as part of training models, are the latest examples of the ongoing tension between copyright and computer science. The exuberance, rush-to-market, and edge problem cases created by a few misguided companies now raises challenges to core legal doctrines and may shift Open Internet practices for the worse. That result does not have to be, and should not be, the outcome. This Article shows that, contrary to some scholars' views, fair use law does not bless all ways that someone can gain access to copyrighted material even when the purpose is fair use. Nonetheless, the scientific need for more data to advance AI research means access to large book corpora and the Open Internet is vital for the future of that research. The copyright industry claims, however, that almost all uses of copyrighted material must be compensated, even for non-expressive uses. The Article's solution accepts that both sides need to change. It is one that forces the computer science world to discipline its behaviors and, in some cases, pay for copyrighted material. It also requires the copyright industry to abandon its belief that all uses must be compensated or restricted to uses sanctioned by the copyright industry. As part of this re-balancing, the Article addresses a problem that has grown out of this clash and under theorized.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [382]
标题:  MemeCraft: Contextual and Stance-Driven Multimodal Meme Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14652
作者:  Han Wang,  Roy Ka-Wei Lee
备注:  8 pages, 7 figures, ACM MM 2024
Abstract:Online memes have emerged as powerful digital cultural artifacts in the age of social media, offering not only humor but also platforms for political discourse, social critique, and information dissemination. Their extensive reach and influence in shaping online communities' sentiments make them invaluable tools for campaigning and promoting ideologies. Despite the development of several meme-generation tools, there remains a gap in their systematic evaluation and their ability to effectively communicate ideologies. Addressing this, we introduce MemeCraft, an innovative meme generator that leverages large language models (LLMs) and visual language models (VLMs) to produce memes advocating specific social movements. MemeCraft presents an end-to-end pipeline, transforming user prompts into compelling multimodal memes without manual intervention. Conscious of the misuse potential in creating divisive content, an intrinsic safety mechanism is embedded to curb hateful meme production.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [383]
标题:  DOSA: A Dataset of Social Artifacts from Different Indian Geographical  Subcultures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14651
作者:  Agrima Seth,  Sanchit Ahuja,  Kalika Bali,  Sunayana Sitaram
备注:  
Abstract:Generative models are increasingly being used in various applications, such as text generation, commonsense reasoning, and question-answering. To be effective globally, these models must be aware of and account for local socio-cultural contexts, making it necessary to have benchmarks to evaluate the models for their cultural familiarity. Since the training data for LLMs is web-based and the Web is limited in its representation of information, it does not capture knowledge present within communities that are not on the Web. Thus, these models exacerbate the inequities, semantic misalignment, and stereotypes from the Web. There has been a growing call for community-centered participatory research methods in NLP. In this work, we respond to this call by using participatory research methods to introduce $\textit{DOSA}$, the first community-generated $\textbf{D}$ataset $\textbf{o}$f 615 $\textbf{S}$ocial $\textbf{A}$rtifacts, by engaging with 260 participants from 19 different Indian geographic subcultures. We use a gamified framework that relies on collective sensemaking to collect the names and descriptions of these artifacts such that the descriptions semantically align with the shared sensibilities of the individuals from those cultures. Next, we benchmark four popular LLMs and find that they show significant variation across regional sub-cultures in their ability to infer the artifacts.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [384]
标题:  Harnessing the Computing Continuum across Personalized Healthcare,  Maintenance and Inspection, and Farming 4.0
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14650
作者:  Fatemeh Baghdadi,  Davide Cirillo,  Daniele Lezzi,  Francesc Lordan,  Fernando Vazquez,  Eugenio Lomurno,  Alberto Archetti,  Danilo Ardagna,  Matteo Matteucci
备注:  
Abstract:The AI-SPRINT project, launched in 2021 and funded by the European Commission, focuses on the development and implementation of AI applications across the computing continuum. This continuum ensures the coherent integration of computational resources and services from centralized data centers to edge devices, facilitating efficient and adaptive computation and application delivery. AI-SPRINT has achieved significant scientific advances, including streamlined processes, improved efficiency, and the ability to operate in real time, as evidenced by three practical use cases. This paper provides an in-depth examination of these applications -- Personalized Healthcare, Maintenance and Inspection, and Farming 4.0 -- highlighting their practical implementation and the objectives achieved with the integration of AI-SPRINT technologies. We analyze how the proposed toolchain effectively addresses a range of challenges and refines processes, discussing its relevance and impact in multiple domains. After a comprehensive overview of the main AI-SPRINT tools used in these scenarios, the paper summarizes of the findings and key lessons learned.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [385]
标题:  The economic value of scientific software
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14649
作者:  Nicolas Jullien (IMT Atlantique - LUSSI, MARSOUIN, LEGO)
备注:  in French language
Abstract:Academic institutions and their staff use, adapt and create software. We're thinking of business tools used to carry out their mission: teaching management (Moodle) or subject teaching support (such as Maxima for formal calculus), for example. We're talking about software resulting from research work, designed by a researcher or a team as part of a research project (funded by ANR, Europe, etc. or not) or as a research service for a third party. These projects can last for decades (such as the Coq program proof assistant project, or the GPAC multimedia content distribution platform).We discuss why this software is produced, with what resources, the interest that institutions derive from it, what we call the ''valorization'' of software resulting from scientific research. The latter is multifaceted, as are the missions of scientific institutions: social value (contribution to the world heritage of knowledge), financial value (contracts), economic value (business creation), scientific value (publication), image value (visibility of the institution among target audiences: students, researchers, companies, prescribers).
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [386]
标题:  Initial Indications of Safety of Driverless Automated Driving Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14648
作者:  Jiayu Joyce Chen,  Steven E. Shladover
备注:  
Abstract:As driverless automated driving systems (ADS) start to operate on public roads, there is an urgent need to understand how safely these systems are managing real-world traffic conditions. With data from the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) becoming available for Transportation Network Companies (TNCs) operating in California with and without human drivers, there is an initial basis for comparing ADS and human driving safety. This paper analyzes the crash rates and characteristics for three types of driving: Uber ridesharing trips from the CPUC TNC Annual Report in 2020, supervised autonomous vehicles (AV) driving from the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) between December 2020 and November 2022, driverless ADS pilot (testing) and deployment (revenue service) program from Waymo and Cruise between March 2022 and August 2023. All of the driving was done within the city of San Francisco, excluding freeways. The same geographical confinement allows for controlling the exposure to vulnerable road users, population density, speed limit, and other external factors such as weather and road conditions. The study finds that supervised AV has almost equivalent crashes per million miles (CPMM) as Uber human driving, the driverless Waymo AV has a lower CPMM, and the driverless Cruise AV has a higher CPMM than Uber human driving. The data samples are not yet large enough to support conclusions about whether the current automated systems are more or less safe than human-operated vehicles in the complex San Francisco urban environment.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [387]
标题:  Digital Twin for Wind Energy: Latest updates from the NorthWind project
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14646
作者:  Adil Rasheed,  Florian Stadtmann,  Eivind Fonn,  Mandar Tabib,  Vasileios Tsiolakis,  Balram Panjwani,  Kjetil Andre Johannessen,  Trond Kvamsdal,  Omer San,  John Olav Tande,  Idar Barstad,  Tore Christiansen,  Elling Rishoff,  Lars Frøyd,  Tore Rasmussen
备注:  
Abstract:NorthWind, a collaborative research initiative supported by the Research Council of Norway, industry stakeholders, and research partners, aims to advance cutting-edge research and innovation in wind energy. The core mission is to reduce wind power costs and foster sustainable growth, with a key focus on the development of digital twins. A digital twin is a virtual representation of physical assets or processes that uses data and simulators to enable real-time forecasting, optimization, monitoring, control and informed decision-making. Recently, a hierarchical scale ranging from 0 to 5 (0 - Standalone, 1 - Descriptive, 2 - Diagnostic, 3 - Predictive, 4 - Prescriptive, 5 - Autonomous has been introduced within the NorthWind project to assess the capabilities of digital twins. This paper elaborates on our progress in constructing digital twins for wind farms and their components across various capability levels.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [388]
标题:  Designing Multi-Step Action Models for Enterprise AI Adoption
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14645
作者:  Shreyash Mishra,  Shrey Shah,  Rex Pereira
备注:  8 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:This paper introduces the Multi-Step Action Model (MSAM), a closed-source AI model designed by Empsing to address challenges hindering AI adoption in enterprises. Through a holistic examination, this paper explores MSAM's foundational principles, design architecture, and future trajectory. It evaluates MSAM's performance via rigorous testing methodologies and envisions its potential impact on advancing AI adoption within organizations.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [389]
标题:  Exploring ChatGPT and its Impact on Society
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14643
作者:  Md. Asraful Haque,  Shuai Li
备注:  20 Pages, AI and Ethics (2024)
Abstract:Artificial intelligence has been around for a while, but suddenly it has received more attention than ever before. Thanks to innovations from companies like Google, Microsoft, Meta, and other major brands in technology. OpenAI, though, has triggered the button with its ground-breaking invention ChatGPT. ChatGPT is a Large Language Model (LLM) based on Transformer architecture that has the ability to generate human-like responses in a conversational context. It uses deep learning algorithms to generate natural language responses to input text. Its large number of parameters, contextual generation, and open-domain training make it a versatile and effective tool for a wide range of applications, from chatbots to customer service to language translation. It has the potential to revolutionize various industries and transform the way we interact with technology. However, the use of ChatGPT has also raised several concerns, including ethical, social, and employment challenges, which must be carefully considered to ensure the responsible use of this technology. The article provides an overview of ChatGPT, delving into its architecture and training process. It highlights the potential impacts of ChatGPT on the society. In this paper, we suggest some approaches involving technology, regulation, education, and ethics in an effort to maximize ChatGPT's benefits while minimizing its negative impacts. This study is expected to contribute to a greater understanding of ChatGPT and aid in predicting the potential changes it may bring about.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [390]
标题:  Revolutionising Distance Learning: A Comparative Study of Learning  Progress with AI-Driven Tutoring
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14642
作者:  Moritz Möller,  Gargi Nirmal,  Dario Fabietti,  Quintus Stierstorfer,  Mark Zakhvatkin,  Holger Sommerfeld,  Sven Schütt
备注:  
Abstract:Generative AI is expected to have a vast, positive impact on education; however, at present, this potential has not yet been demonstrated at scale at university level. In this study, we present first evidence that generative AI can increase the speed of learning substantially in university students. We tested whether using the AI-powered teaching assistant Syntea affected the speed of learning of hundreds of distance learning students across more than 40 courses at the IU International University of Applied Sciences. Our analysis suggests that using Syntea reduced their study time substantially--by about 27\% on average--in the third month after the release of Syntea. Taken together, the magnitude of the effect and the scalability of the approach implicate generative AI as a key lever to significantly improve and accelerate learning by personalisation.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [391]
标题:  Testing autonomous vehicles and AI: perspectives and challenges from  cybersecurity, transparency, robustness and fairness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14641
作者:  David Fernández Llorca,  Ronan Hamon,  Henrik Junklewitz,  Kathrin Grosse,  Lars Kunze,  Patrick Seiniger,  Robert Swaim,  Nick Reed,  Alexandre Alahi,  Emilia Gómez,  Ignacio Sánchez,  Akos Kriston
备注:  44 pages, 8 figures, submitted to a peer-review journal
Abstract:This study explores the complexities of integrating Artificial Intelligence (AI) into Autonomous Vehicles (AVs), examining the challenges introduced by AI components and the impact on testing procedures, focusing on some of the essential requirements for trustworthy AI. Topics addressed include the role of AI at various operational layers of AVs, the implications of the EU's AI Act on AVs, and the need for new testing methodologies for Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) and Automated Driving Systems (ADS). The study also provides a detailed analysis on the importance of cybersecurity audits, the need for explainability in AI decision-making processes and protocols for assessing the robustness and ethical behaviour of predictive systems in AVs. The paper identifies significant challenges and suggests future directions for research and development of AI in AV technology, highlighting the need for multidisciplinary expertise.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [392]
标题:  On Defining Smart Cities using Transformer Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14639
作者:  Andrei Khurshudov
备注:  16 pages, 2 fugures
Abstract:Cities worldwide are rapidly adopting smart technologies, transforming urban life. Despite this trend, a universally accepted definition of 'smart city' remains elusive. Past efforts to define it have not yielded a consensus, as evidenced by the numerous definitions in use. In this paper, we endeavored to create a new 'compromise' definition that should resonate with most experts previously involved in defining this concept and aimed to validate one of the existing definitions. We reviewed 60 definitions of smart cities from industry, academia, and various relevant organizations, employing transformer architecture-based generative AI and semantic text analysis to reach this compromise. We proposed a semantic similarity measure as an evaluation technique, which could generally be used to compare different smart city definitions, assessing their uniqueness or resemblance. Our methodology employed generative AI to analyze various existing definitions of smart cities, generating a list of potential new composite definitions. Each of these new definitions was then tested against the pre-existing individual definitions we have gathered, using cosine similarity as our metric. This process identified smart city definitions with the highest average cosine similarity, semantically positioning them as the closest on average to all the 60 individual definitions selected.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [393]
标题:  Personalized Programming Guidance based on Deep Programming Learning  Style Capturing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14638
作者:  Yingfan Liu,  Renyu Zhu,  Ming Gao
备注:  18th International Conference on Computer Science & Education
Abstract:With the rapid development of big data and AI technology, programming is in high demand and has become an essential skill for students. Meanwhile, researchers also focus on boosting the online judging system's guidance ability to reduce students' dropout rates. Previous studies mainly targeted at enhancing learner engagement on online platforms by providing personalized recommendations. However, two significant challenges still need to be addressed in programming: C1) how to recognize complex programming behaviors; C2) how to capture intrinsic learning patterns that align with the actual learning process. To fill these gaps, in this paper, we propose a novel model called Programming Exercise Recommender with Learning Style (PERS), which simulates learners' intricate programming behaviors. Specifically, since programming is an iterative and trial-and-error process, we first introduce a positional encoding and a differentiating module to capture the changes of consecutive code submissions (which addresses C1). To better profile programming behaviors, we extend the Felder-Silverman learning style model, a classical pedagogical theory, to perceive intrinsic programming patterns. Based on this, we align three latent vectors to record and update programming ability, processing style, and understanding style, respectively (which addresses C2). We perform extensive experiments on two real-world datasets to verify the rationality of modeling programming learning styles and the effectiveness of PERS for personalized programming guidance.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [394]
标题:  SimGrade: Using Code Similarity Measures for More Accurate Human Grading
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14637
作者:  Sonja Johnson-Yu,  Nicholas Bowman,  Mehran Sahami,  Chris Piech
备注:  Educational Data Mining 2021
Abstract:While the use of programming problems on exams is a common form of summative assessment in CS courses, grading such exam problems can be a difficult and inconsistent process. Through an analysis of historical grading patterns we show that inaccurate and inconsistent grading of free-response programming problems is widespread in CS1 courses. These inconsistencies necessitate the development of methods to ensure more fairer and more accurate grading. In subsequent analysis of this historical exam data we demonstrate that graders are able to more accurately assign a score to a student submission when they have previously seen another submission similar to it. As a result, we hypothesize that we can improve exam grading accuracy by ensuring that each submission that a grader sees is similar to at least one submission they have previously seen. We propose several algorithms for (1) assigning student submissions to graders, and (2) ordering submissions to maximize the probability that a grader has previously seen a similar solution, leveraging distributed representations of student code in order to measure similarity between submissions. Finally, we demonstrate in simulation that these algorithms achieve higher grading accuracy than the current standard random assignment process used for grading.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [395]
标题:  AI Fairness in Practice
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14636
作者:  David Leslie,  Cami Rincon,  Morgan Briggs,  Antonella Perini,  Smera Jayadeva,  Ann Borda,  SJ Bennett,  Christopher Burr,  Mhairi Aitken,  Michael Katell,  Claudia Fischer,  Janis Wong,  Ismael Kherroubi Garcia
备注:  
Abstract:Reaching consensus on a commonly accepted definition of AI Fairness has long been a central challenge in AI ethics and governance. There is a broad spectrum of views across society on what the concept of fairness means and how it should best be put to practice. In this workbook, we tackle this challenge by exploring how a context-based and society-centred approach to understanding AI Fairness can help project teams better identify, mitigate, and manage the many ways that unfair bias and discrimination can crop up across the AI project workflow. We begin by exploring how, despite the plurality of understandings about the meaning of fairness, priorities of equality and non-discrimination have come to constitute the broadly accepted core of its application as a practical principle. We focus on how these priorities manifest in the form of equal protection from direct and indirect discrimination and from discriminatory harassment. These elements form ethical and legal criteria based upon which instances of unfair bias and discrimination can be identified and mitigated across the AI project workflow. We then take a deeper dive into how the different contexts of the AI project lifecycle give rise to different fairness concerns. This allows us to identify several types of AI Fairness (Data Fairness, Application Fairness, Model Design and Development Fairness, Metric-Based Fairness, System Implementation Fairness, and Ecosystem Fairness) that form the basis of a multi-lens approach to bias identification, mitigation, and management. Building on this, we discuss how to put the principle of AI Fairness into practice across the AI project workflow through Bias Self-Assessment and Bias Risk Management as well as through the documentation of metric-based fairness criteria in a Fairness Position Statement.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [396]
标题:  AI Sustainability in Practice Part One: Foundations for Sustainable AI  Projects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14635
作者:  David Leslie,  Cami Rincon,  Morgan Briggs,  Antonella Perini,  Smera Jayadeva,  Ann Borda,  SJ Bennett,  Christopher Burr,  Mhairi Aitken,  Michael Katell,  Claudia Fischer,  Janis Wong,  Ismael Kherroubi Garcia
备注:  
Abstract:Sustainable AI projects are continuously responsive to the transformative effects as well as short-, medium-, and long-term impacts on individuals and society that the design, development, and deployment of AI technologies may have. Projects, which centre AI Sustainability, ensure that values-led, collaborative, and anticipatory reflection both guides the assessment of potential social and ethical impacts and steers responsible innovation practices. This workbook is the first part of a pair that provides the concepts and tools needed to put AI Sustainability into practice. It introduces the SUM Values, which help AI project teams to assess the potential societal impacts and ethical permissibility of their projects. It then presents a Stakeholder Engagement Process (SEP), which provides tools to facilitate proportionate engagement of and input from stakeholders with an emphasis on equitable and meaningful participation and positionality awareness.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [397]
标题:  Born With a Silver Spoon? Investigating Socioeconomic Bias in Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14633
作者:  Smriti Singh,  Shuvam Keshari,  Vinija Jain,  Aman Chadha
备注:  
Abstract:Socioeconomic bias in society exacerbates disparities, influencing access to opportunities and resources based on individuals' economic and social backgrounds. This pervasive issue perpetuates systemic inequalities, hindering the pursuit of inclusive progress as a society. In this paper, we investigate the presence of socioeconomic bias, if any, in large language models. To this end, we introduce a novel dataset (SilverSpoon), consisting of 3000 samples that illustrate hypothetical scenarios that involve underprivileged people performing ethically ambiguous actions due to their circumstances, and ask whether the action is ethically justified. Further, this dataset has a dual-labeling scheme and has been annotated by people belonging to both ends of the socioeconomic spectrum. Using SilverSpoon, we evaluate the degree of socioeconomic bias expressed in large language models and the variation of this degree as a function of model size. We also perform qualitative analysis to analyze the nature of this bias. Our analysis reveals that while humans disagree on which situations require empathy toward the underprivileged, most large language models are unable to empathize with the socioeconomically underprivileged regardless of the situation. To foster further research in this domain, we make SilverSpoon and our evaluation harness publicly available.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [398]
标题:  Optimal Exploration Strategy for Regret Minimization in Unconstrained  Scalar Optimization Problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15344
作者:  Ying Wang,  Mirko Pasquini,  Kévin Colin,  Håkan Hjalmarsson
备注:  Preprint submitted to IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC 2024)
Abstract:We study the problem of determining the optimal exploration strategy in an unconstrained scalar optimization problem depending on an unknown parameter to be learned from online collected noisy data. An optimal trade-off between exploration and exploitation is crucial for effective optimization under uncertainties, and to achieve this we consider a cumulative regret minimization approach over a finite horizon, with each time instant in the horizon characterized by a stochastic exploration signal, whose variance has to be designed. In this setting, under an idealized assumption on an appropriately defined information function associated with the excitation, we are able to show that the optimal exploration strategy is either to use no exploration at all (called lazy exploration) or adding an exploration excitation only at the first time instant of the horizon (called immediate exploration). A quadratic numerical example is used to illustrate the results.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [399]
标题:  Dialogue Understandability: Why are we streaming movies with subtitles?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15336
作者:  Helard Becerra,  Alessandro Ragano,  Diptasree Debnath,  Asad Ullah,  Crisron Rudolf Lucas,  Martin Walsh,  Andrew Hines
备注:  
Abstract:Watching movies and TV shows with subtitles enabled is not simply down to audibility or speech intelligibility. A variety of evolving factors related to technological advances, cinema production and social behaviour challenge our perception and understanding. This study seeks to formalise and give context to these influential factors under a wider and novel term referred to as Dialogue Understandability. We propose a working definition for Dialogue Understandability being a listener's capacity to follow the story without undue cognitive effort or concentration being required that impacts their Quality of Experience (QoE). The paper identifies, describes and categorises the factors that influence Dialogue Understandability mapping them over the QoE framework, a media streaming lifecycle, and the stakeholders involved. We then explore available measurement tools in the literature and link them to the factors they could potentially be used for. The maturity and suitability of these tools is evaluated over a set of pilot experiments. Finally, we reflect on the gaps that still need to be filled, what we can measure and what not, future subjective experiments, and new research trends that could help us to fully characterise Dialogue Understandability.
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [400]
标题:  Ultrasound Imaging based on the Variance of a Diffusion Restoration  Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15316
作者:  Yuxin Zhang,  Clément Huneau,  Jérôme Idier,  Diana Mateus
备注:  5 pages; submitted to EUSIPCO 2024. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2310.20618
Abstract:Despite today's prevalence of ultrasound imaging in medicine, ultrasound signal-to-noise ratio is still affected by several sources of noise and artefacts. Moreover, enhancing ultrasound image quality involves balancing concurrent factors like contrast, resolution, and speckle preservation. Recently, there has been progress in both model-based and learning-based approaches addressing the problem of ultrasound image reconstruction. Bringing the best from both worlds, we propose a hybrid reconstruction method combining an ultrasound linear direct model with a learning-based prior coming from a generative Denoising Diffusion model. More specifically, we rely on the unsupervised fine-tuning of a pre-trained Denoising Diffusion Restoration Model (DDRM). Given the nature of multiplicative noise inherent to ultrasound, this paper proposes an empirical model to characterize the stochasticity of diffusion reconstruction of ultrasound images, and shows the interest of its variance as an echogenicity map estimator. We conduct experiments on synthetic, in-vitro, and in-vivo data, demonstrating the efficacy of our variance imaging approach in achieving high-quality image reconstructions from single plane-wave acquisitions and in comparison to state-of-the-art methods.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [401]
标题:  Global Control for Local SO(3)-Equivariant Scale-Invariant Vessel  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15314
作者:  Patryk Rygiel,  Dieuwertje Alblas,  Christoph Brune,  Kak Khee Yeung,  Jelmer M. Wolterink
备注:  
Abstract:Personalized 3D vascular models can aid in a range of diagnostic, prognostic, and treatment-planning tasks relevant to cardiovascular disease management. Deep learning provides a means to automatically obtain such models. Ideally, a user should have control over the exact region of interest (ROI) to be included in a vascular model, and the model should be watertight and highly accurate. To this end, we propose a combination of a global controller leveraging voxel mask segmentations to provide boundary conditions for vessels of interest to a local, iterative vessel segmentation model. We introduce the preservation of scale- and rotational symmetries in the local segmentation model, leading to generalisation to vessels of unseen sizes and orientations. Combined with the global controller, this enables flexible 3D vascular model building, without additional retraining. We demonstrate the potential of our method on a dataset containing abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). Our method performs on par with a state-of-the-art segmentation model in the segmentation of AAAs, iliac arteries and renal arteries, while providing a watertight, smooth surface segmentation. Moreover, we demonstrate that by adapting the global controller, we can easily extend vessel sections in the 3D model.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [402]
标题:  A Wasserstein perspective of Vanilla GANs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15312
作者:  Lea Kunkel,  Mathias Trabs
备注:  
Abstract:The empirical success of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) caused an increasing interest in theoretical research. The statistical literature is mainly focused on Wasserstein GANs and generalizations thereof, which especially allow for good dimension reduction properties. Statistical results for Vanilla GANs, the original optimization problem, are still rather limited and require assumptions such as smooth activation functions and equal dimensions of the latent space and the ambient space. To bridge this gap, we draw a connection from Vanilla GANs to the Wasserstein distance. By doing so, existing results for Wasserstein GANs can be extended to Vanilla GANs. In particular, we obtain an oracle inequality for Vanilla GANs in Wasserstein distance. The assumptions of this oracle inequality are designed to be satisfied by network architectures commonly used in practice, such as feedforward ReLU networks. By providing a quantitative result for the approximation of a Lipschitz function by a feedforward ReLU network with bounded Hölder norm, we conclude a rate of convergence for Vanilla GANs as well as Wasserstein GANs as estimators of the unknown probability distribution.
Subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [403]
标题:  Bioinformatics and Biomedical Informatics with ChatGPT: Year One Review
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15274
作者:  Jinge Wang,  Zien Cheng,  Qiuming Yao,  Li Liu,  Dong Xu,  Gangqing Hu
备注:  19 pages, 3 Figures, 1 Table
Abstract:The year 2023 marked a significant surge in the exploration of applying large language model (LLM) chatbots, notably ChatGPT, across various disciplines. We surveyed the applications of ChatGPT in various sectors of bioinformatics and biomedical informatics throughout the year, covering omics, genetics, biomedical text mining, drug discovery, biomedical image understanding, bioinformatics programming, and bioinformatics education. Our survey delineates the current strengths and limitations of this chatbot in bioinformatics and offers insights into potential avenues for future development.
Subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [404]
标题:  Crossing lemmas for $k$-systems of arcs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15261
作者:  Alfredo Hubard,  Hugo Parlier
备注:  7 pages
Abstract:We show a generalization of the crossing lemma for multi-graphs drawn on orientable surfaces in which pairs of edges are assumed to be drawn by non-homotopic simple arcs which pairwise cross at most $k$ times.
Subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [405]
标题:  Robust Utility Optimization via a GAN Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15243
作者:  Florian Krach,  Josef Teichmann,  Hanna Wutte
备注:  
Abstract:Robust utility optimization enables an investor to deal with market uncertainty in a structured way, with the goal of maximizing the worst-case outcome. In this work, we propose a generative adversarial network (GAN) approach to (approximately) solve robust utility optimization problems in general and realistic settings. In particular, we model both the investor and the market by neural networks (NN) and train them in a mini-max zero-sum game. This approach is applicable for any continuous utility function and in realistic market settings with trading costs, where only observable information of the market can be used. A large empirical study shows the versatile usability of our method. Whenever an optimal reference strategy is available, our method performs on par with it and in the (many) settings without known optimal strategy, our method outperforms all other reference strategies. Moreover, we can conclude from our study that the trained path-dependent strategies do not outperform Markovian ones. Lastly, we uncover that our generative approach for learning optimal, (non-) robust investments under trading costs generates universally applicable alternatives to well known asymptotic strategies of idealized settings.
Subjects: Computational Finance (q-fin.CP); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Mathematical Finance (q-fin.MF); Portfolio Management (q-fin.PM)

**编号**: [406]
标题:  WEEP: A method for spatial interpretation of weakly supervised CNN  models in computational pathology
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15238
作者:  Abhinav Sharma,  Bojing Liu,  Mattias Rantalainen
备注:  
Abstract:Deep learning enables the modelling of high-resolution histopathology whole-slide images (WSI). Weakly supervised learning of tile-level data is typically applied for tasks where labels only exist on the patient or WSI level (e.g. patient outcomes or histological grading). In this context, there is a need for improved spatial interpretability of predictions from such models. We propose a novel method, Wsi rEgion sElection aPproach (WEEP), for model interpretation. It provides a principled yet straightforward way to establish the spatial area of WSI required for assigning a particular prediction label. We demonstrate WEEP on a binary classification task in the area of breast cancer computational pathology. WEEP is easy to implement, is directly connected to the model-based decision process, and offers information relevant to both research and diagnostic applications.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [407]
标题:  On moment relaxations for linear state feedback controller synthesis  with non-convex quadratic costs and constraints
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15228
作者:  Dennis Gramlich,  Sheng Gao,  Hao Zhang,  Carsten W. Scherer,  Christian Ebenbauer
备注:  Preprent to be submitted to IEEE Conference on Decision and Control
Abstract:We present a simple and effective way to account for non-convex costs and constraints~in~state feedback synthesis, and an interpretation for the variables in which state feedback synthesis is typically convex. We achieve this by deriving the controller design using moment matrices of state and input. It turns out that this approach allows the consideration of non-convex constraints by relaxing them as expectation constraints, and that the variables in which state feedback synthesis is typically convexified can be identified with blocks of these moment matrices.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [408]
标题:  Flip-Breakability: A Combinatorial Dichotomy for Monadically Dependent  Graph Classes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15201
作者:  Jan Dreier,  Nikolas Mählmann,  Szymon Toruńczyk
备注:  
Abstract:A conjecture in algorithmic model theory predicts that the model-checking problem for first-order logic is fixed-parameter tractable on a hereditary graph class if and only if the class is monadically dependent. Originating in model theory, this notion is defined in terms of logic, and encompasses nowhere dense classes, monadically stable classes, and classes of bounded twin-width. Working towards this conjecture, we provide the first two combinatorial characterizations of monadically dependent graph classes. This yields the following dichotomy. On the structure side, we characterize monadic dependence by a Ramsey-theoretic property called flip-breakability. This notion generalizes the notions of uniform quasi-wideness, flip-flatness, and bounded grid rank, which characterize nowhere denseness, monadic stability, and bounded twin-width, respectively, and played a key role in their respective model checking algorithms. Natural restrictions of flip-breakability additionally characterize bounded treewidth and cliquewidth and bounded treedepth and shrubdepth. On the non-structure side, we characterize monadic dependence by explicitly listing few families of forbidden induced subgraphs. This result is analogous to the characterization of nowhere denseness via forbidden subdivided cliques, and allows us to resolve one half of the motivating conjecture: First-order model checking is AW[$*$]-hard on every hereditary graph class that is monadically independent. The result moreover implies that hereditary graph classes which are small, have almost bounded twin-width, or have almost bounded flip-width, are monadically dependent. Lastly, we lift our result to also obtain a combinatorial dichotomy in the more general setting of monadically dependent classes of binary structures.
Subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO)

**编号**: [409]
标题:  Pursuit-Evasion on a Sphere and When It Can Be Considered Flat
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15188
作者:  Dejan Milutinovic,  Alexander Von Moll,  Satyanarayana G. Manyam,  David W. Casbeer,  Isaac E. Weintraub,  Meir Pachter
备注:  8 Pages, 5 figures, To be submitted to 2024 Conference on Decision and Control in Milan, Italy
Abstract:In classical works on a planar differential pursuit-evasion game with a faster pursuer, the intercept point resulting from the equilibrium strategies lies on the Apollonius circle. This property was exploited for the construction of the equilibrium strategies for two faster pursuers against one evader. Extensions for planar multiple-pursuer single-evader scenarios have been considered. We study a pursuit-evasion game on a sphere and the relation of the equilibrium intercept point to the Apollonius domain on the sphere. The domain is a generalization of the planar Apollonius circle set. We find a condition resulting in the intercept point belonging to the Apollonius domain, which is the characteristic of the planar game solution. Finally, we use this characteristic to discuss pursuit and evasion strategies in the context of two pursuers and a single slower evader on the sphere and illustrate it using numerical simulations.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Differential Geometry (math.DG)

**编号**: [410]
标题:  Brain-grounding of semantic vectors improves neural decoding of visual  stimuli
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15176
作者:  Shirin Vafaei,  Ryohei Fukuma,  Huixiang Yang,  Haruhiko Kishima,  Takufumi Yanagisawa
备注:  16 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Developing algorithms for accurate and comprehensive neural decoding of mental contents is one of the long-cherished goals in the field of neuroscience and brain-machine interfaces. Previous studies have demonstrated the feasibility of neural decoding by training machine learning models to map brain activity patterns into a semantic vector representation of stimuli. These vectors, hereafter referred as pretrained feature vectors, are usually derived from semantic spaces based solely on image and/or text features and therefore they might have a totally different characteristics than how visual stimuli is represented in the human brain, resulting in limiting the capability of brain decoders to learn this mapping. To address this issue, we propose a representation learning framework, termed brain-grounding of semantic vectors, which fine-tunes pretrained feature vectors to better align with the neural representation of visual stimuli in the human brain. We trained this model this model with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of 150 different visual stimuli categories, and then performed zero-shot brain decoding and identification analyses on 1) fMRI and 2) magnetoencephalography (MEG). Interestingly, we observed that by using the brain-grounded vectors, the brain decoding and identification accuracy on brain data from different neuroimaging modalities increases. These findings underscore the potential of incorporating a richer array of brain-derived features to enhance performance of brain decoding algorithms.
Subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [411]
标题:  Digital twin model of colon electromechanics for manometry prediction of  laser tissue soldering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15129
作者:  René Thierry Djoumessi,  Pietro Lenarda,  Alessio Gizzi,  Simone Giusti,  Pietro Alduini,  Marco Paggi
备注:  
Abstract:The present study introduces an advanced multi-physics and multi-scale modeling approach to investigate in silico colon motility. We introduce a generalized electromechanical framework, integrating cellular electrophysiology and smooth muscle contractility, thus advancing a first-of-its-kind computational model of laser tissue soldering after incision resection. The proposed theoretical framework comprises three main elements: a microstructural material model describing intestine wall geometry and composition of reinforcing fibers, with four fiber families, two active-conductive and two passive; an electrophysiological model describing the propagation of slow waves, based on a fully-coupled nonlinear phenomenological approach; and a thermodynamical consistent mechanical model describing the hyperelastic energetic contributions ruling tissue equilibrium under diverse loading conditions. The active strain approach was adopted to describe tissue electromechanics by exploiting the multiplicative decomposition of the deformation gradient for each active fiber family and solving the governing equations via a staggered finite element scheme. The computational framework was fine-tuned according to state-of-the-art experimental evidence, and extensive numerical analyses allowed us to compare manometric traces computed via numerical simulations with those obtained clinically in human patients. The model proved capable of reproducing both qualitatively and quantitatively high or low-amplitude propagation contractions. Colon motility after laser tissue soldering demonstrates that material properties and couplings of the deposited tissue are critical to reproducing a physiological muscular contraction, thus restoring a proper peristaltic activity.
Subjects: Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [412]
标题:  Improving cross-domain brain tissue segmentation in fetal MRI with  synthetic data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15103
作者:  Vladyslav Zalevskyi,  Thomas Sanchez,  Margaux Roulet,  Jordina Aviles Verddera,  Jana Hutter,  Hamza Kebiri,  Meritxell Bach Cuadra
备注:  10 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
Abstract:Segmentation of fetal brain tissue from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) plays a crucial role in the study of in utero neurodevelopment. However, automated tools face substantial domain shift challenges as they must be robust to highly heterogeneous clinical data, often limited in numbers and lacking annotations. Indeed, high variability of the fetal brain morphology, MRI acquisition parameters, and superresolution reconstruction (SR) algorithms adversely affect the model's performance when evaluated out-of-domain. In this work, we introduce FetalSynthSeg, a domain randomization method to segment fetal brain MRI, inspired by SynthSeg. Our results show that models trained solely on synthetic data outperform models trained on real data in out-ofdomain settings, validated on a 120-subject cross-domain dataset. Furthermore, we extend our evaluation to 40 subjects acquired using lowfield (0.55T) MRI and reconstructed with novel SR models, showcasing robustness across different magnetic field strengths and SR algorithms. Leveraging a generative synthetic approach, we tackle the domain shift problem in fetal brain MRI and offer compelling prospects for applications in fields with limited and highly heterogeneous data.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [413]
标题:  Optimal Contract Design for End-of-Life Care Payments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15099
作者:  Muyan Jiang,  Ying Chen,  Xin Chen,  Javad Lavaei,  Anil Aswani
备注:  
Abstract:A large fraction of total healthcare expenditure occurs due to end-of-life (EOL) care, which means it is important to study the problem of more carefully incentivizing necessary versus unnecessary EOL care because this has the potential to reduce overall healthcare spending. This paper introduces a principal-agent model that integrates a mixed payment system of fee-for-service and pay-for-performance in order to analyze whether it is possible to better align healthcare provider incentives with patient outcomes and cost-efficiency in EOL care. The primary contributions are to derive optimal contracts for EOL care payments using a principal-agent framework under three separate models for the healthcare provider, where each model considers a different level of risk tolerance for the provider. We derive these optimal contracts by converting the underlying principal-agent models from a bilevel optimization problem into a single-level optimization problem that can be analytically solved. Our results are demonstrated using a simulation where an optimal contract is used to price intracranial pressure monitoring for traumatic brain injuries.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Applications (stat.AP)

**编号**: [414]
标题:  End-to-End Mineral Exploration with Artificial Intelligence and Ambient  Noise Tomography
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15095
作者:  Jack Muir,  Gerrit Olivier,  Anthony Reid
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents an innovative end-to-end workflow for mineral exploration, integrating ambient noise tomography (ANT) and artificial intelligence (AI) to enhance the discovery and delineation of mineral resources essential for the global transition to a low carbon economy. We focus on copper as a critical element, required in significant quantities for renewable energy solutions. We show the benefits of utilising ANT, characterised by its speed, scalability, depth penetration, resolution, and low environmental impact, alongside artificial intelligence (AI) techniques to refine a continent-scale prospectivity model at the deposit scale by fine-tuning our model on local high-resolution data. We show the promise of the method by first presenting a new data-driven AI prospectivity model for copper within Australia, which serves as our foundation model for further fine-tuning. We then focus on the Hillside IOCG deposit on the prospective Yorke Peninsula. We show that with relatively few local training samples (orebody intercepts), we can fine tune the foundation model to provide a good estimate of the Hillside orebody outline. Our methodology demonstrates how AI can augment geophysical data interpretation, providing a novel approach to mineral exploration with improved decision-making capabilities for targeting mineralization, thereby addressing the urgent need for increased mineral resource discovery.
Subjects: Geophysics (physics.geo-ph); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [415]
标题:  Comprehensive Lipidomic Automation Workflow using Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15076
作者:  Connor Beveridge,  Sanjay Iyer,  Caitlin E. Randolph,  Matthew Muhoberac,  Palak Manchanda,  Amy C. Clingenpeel,  Shane Tichy,  Gaurav Chopra
备注:  53 pages, 4 main figures, 23 Supporting figures, 10 Supporting Tables
Abstract:Lipidomics generates large data that makes manual annotation and interpretation challenging. Lipid chemical and structural diversity with structural isomers further complicates annotation. Although, several commercial and open-source software for targeted lipid identification exists, it lacks automated method generation workflows and integration with statistical and bioinformatics tools. We have developed the Comprehensive Lipidomic Automated Workflow (CLAW) platform with integrated workflow for parsing, detailed statistical analysis and lipid annotations based on custom multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) precursor and product ion pair transitions. CLAW contains several modules including identification of carbon-carbon double bond position(s) in unsaturated lipids when combined with ozone electrospray ionization (OzESI)-MRM methodology. To demonstrate the utility of the automated workflow in CLAW, large-scale lipidomics data was collected with traditional and OzESI-MRM profiling on biological and non-biological samples. Specifically, a total of 1497 transitions organized into 10 MRM-based mass spectrometry methods were used to profile lipid droplets isolated from different brain regions of 18-24 month-old Alzheimer's disease mice and age-matched wild-type controls. Additionally, triacyclglycerols (TGs) profiles with carbon-carbon double bond specificity were generated from canola oil samples using OzESI-MRM profiling. We also developed an integrated language user interface with large language models using artificially intelligent (AI) agents that permits users to interact with the CLAW platform using a chatbot terminal to perform statistical and bioinformatic analyses. We envision CLAW pipeline to be used in high-throughput lipid structural identification tasks aiding users to generate automated lipidomics workflows ranging from data acquisition to AI agent-based bioinformatic analysis.
Subjects: Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC)

**编号**: [416]
标题:  A Taxmans guide to taxation of crypto assets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15074
作者:  Arindam Misra
备注:  105 pages, 59 figures and 4 Tables
Abstract:The Financial system has witnessed rapid technological changes. The rise of Bitcoin and other crypto assets based on Distributed Ledger Technology mark a fundamental change in the way people transact and transmit value over a decentralized network, spread across geographies. This has created regulatory and tax policy blind spots, as governments and tax administrations take time to understand and provide policy responses to this innovative, revolutionary, and fast-paced technology. Due to the breakneck speed of innovation in blockchain technology and advent of Decentralized Finance, Decentralized Autonomous Organizations and the Metaverse, it is unlikely that the policy interventions and guidance by regulatory authorities or tax administrations would be ahead or in sync with the pace of innovation. This paper tries to explain the principles on which crypto assets function, their underlying technology and relates them to the tax issues and taxable events which arise within this ecosystem. It also provides instances of tax and regulatory policy responses already in effect in various jurisdictions, including the recent changes in reporting standards by the FATF and the OECD. This paper tries to explain the rationale behind existing laws and policies and the challenges in their implementation. It also attempts to present a ballpark estimate of tax potential of this asset class and suggests creation of global public digital infrastructure that can address issues related to pseudonymity and extra-territoriality. The paper analyses both direct and indirect taxation issues related to crypto assets and discusses more recent aspects like proof-of-stake and maximal extractable value in greater detail.
Subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [417]
标题:  Integrating multiscale topology in digital pathology with pyramidal  graph convolutional networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15068
作者:  Victor Ibañez,  Przemyslaw Szostak,  Quincy Wong,  Konstanty Korski,  Samaneh Abbasi-Sureshjani,  Alvaro Gomariz
备注:  
Abstract:Graph convolutional networks (GCNs) have emerged as a powerful alternative to multiple instance learning with convolutional neural networks in digital pathology, offering superior handling of structural information across various spatial ranges - a crucial aspect of learning from gigapixel H&E-stained whole slide images (WSI). However, graph message-passing algorithms often suffer from oversmoothing when aggregating a large neighborhood. Hence, effective modeling of multi-range interactions relies on the careful construction of the graph. Our proposed multi-scale GCN (MS-GCN) tackles this issue by leveraging information across multiple magnification levels in WSIs. MS-GCN enables the simultaneous modeling of long-range structural dependencies at lower magnifications and high-resolution cellular details at higher magnifications, akin to analysis pipelines usually conducted by pathologists. The architecture's unique configuration allows for the concurrent modeling of structural patterns at lower magnifications and detailed cellular features at higher ones, while also quantifying the contribution of each magnification level to the prediction. Through testing on different datasets, MS-GCN demonstrates superior performance over existing single-magnification GCN methods. The enhancement in performance and interpretability afforded by our method holds promise for advancing computational pathology models, especially in tasks requiring extensive spatial context.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [418]
标题:  Construction of a Japanese Financial Benchmark for Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15062
作者:  Masanori Hirano
备注:  9 pages, Joint Workshop of the 7th Financial Technology and Natural Language Processing (FinNLP), the 5th Knowledge Discovery from Unstructured Data in Financial Services (KDF), and The 4th Workshop on Economics and Natural Language Processing (ECONLP) In conjunction with LREC-COLING-2024
Abstract:With the recent development of large language models (LLMs), models that focus on certain domains and languages have been discussed for their necessity. There is also a growing need for benchmarks to evaluate the performance of current LLMs in each domain. Therefore, in this study, we constructed a benchmark comprising multiple tasks specific to the Japanese and financial domains and performed benchmark measurements on some models. Consequently, we confirmed that GPT-4 is currently outstanding, and that the constructed benchmarks function effectively. According to our analysis, our benchmark can differentiate benchmark scores among models in all performance ranges by combining tasks with different difficulties.
Subjects: Computational Finance (q-fin.CP); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [419]
标题:  Subjective Quality Assessment of Compressed Tone-Mapped High Dynamic  Range Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15061
作者:  Abhinau K. Venkataramanan,  Alan C. Bovik
备注:  
Abstract:High Dynamic Range (HDR) videos are able to represent wider ranges of contrasts and colors than Standard Dynamic Range (SDR) videos, giving more vivid experiences. Due to this, HDR videos are expected to grow into the dominant video modality of the future. However, HDR videos are incompatible with existing SDR displays, which form the majority of affordable consumer displays on the market. Because of this, HDR videos must be processed by tone-mapping them to reduced bit-depths to service a broad swath of SDR-limited video consumers. Here, we analyze the impact of tone-mapping operators on the visual quality of streaming HDR videos. To this end, we built the first large-scale subjectively annotated open-source database of compressed tone-mapped HDR videos, containing 15,000 tone-mapped sequences derived from 40 unique HDR source contents. The videos in the database were labeled with more than 750,000 subjective quality annotations, collected from more than 1,600 unique human observers. We demonstrate the usefulness of the new subjective database by benchmarking objective models of visual quality on it. We envision that the new LIVE Tone-Mapped HDR (LIVE-TMHDR) database will enable significant progress on HDR video tone mapping and quality assessment in the future. To this end, we make the database freely available to the community at this https URL
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [420]
标题:  Estimation of multiple mean vectors in high dimension
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15038
作者:  Gilles Blanchard (LMO, DATASHAPE),  Jean-Baptiste Fermanian (LMO),  Hannah Marienwald (BIFOLD, TU)
备注:  
Abstract:We endeavour to estimate numerous multi-dimensional means of various probability distributions on a common space based on independent samples. Our approach involves forming estimators through convex combinations of empirical means derived from these samples. We introduce two strategies to find appropriate data-dependent convex combination weights: a first one employing a testing procedure to identify neighbouring means with low variance, which results in a closed-form plug-in formula for the weights, and a second one determining weights via minimization of an upper confidence bound on the quadratic risk.Through theoretical analysis, we evaluate the improvement in quadratic risk offered by our methods compared to the empirical means. Our analysis focuses on a dimensional asymptotics perspective, showing that our methods asymptotically approach an oracle (minimax) improvement as the effective dimension of the data increases.We demonstrate the efficacy of our methods in estimating multiple kernel mean embeddings through experiments on both simulated and real-world datasets.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [421]
标题:  Image Classification with Rotation-Invariant Variational Quantum  Circuits
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15031
作者:  Paul San Sebastian,  Mikel Cañizo,  Román Orús
备注:  9 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Variational quantum algorithms are gaining attention as an early application of Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) devices. One of the main problems of variational methods lies in the phenomenon of Barren Plateaus, present in the optimization of variational parameters. Adding geometric inductive bias to the quantum models has been proposed as a potential solution to mitigate this problem, leading to a new field called Geometric Quantum Machine Learning. In this work, an equivariant architecture for variational quantum classifiers is introduced to create a label-invariant model for image classification with $C_4$ rotational label symmetry. The equivariant circuit is benchmarked against two different architectures, and it is experimentally observed that the geometric approach boosts the model's performance. Finally, a classical equivariant convolution operation is proposed to extend the quantum model for the processing of larger images, employing the resources available in NISQ devices.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [422]
标题:  Riemannian Optimization and the Hartree-Fock Method
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15024
作者:  Caio O. da Silva
备注:  
Abstract:In the present work we studied a subfield of Applied Mathematics called Riemannian Optimization. The main goal of this subfield is to generalize algorithms, theorems and tools from Mathematical Optimization to the case in which the optimization problem is defined on a Riemannian manifold. As a case study, we implemented some of the main algorithms described in the literature (Gradient Descent, Newton-Raphson and Conjugate Gradient) to solve an optimization problem known as Hartree-Fock. This method is extremely important in the field of Computational Quantum Chemistry and it is a good case study because it is a problem somewhat hard to solve and, as a consequence of this, it requires many tools from Riemannian Optimization. Besides, it is also a good example to see how these algorithms perform in practice.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [423]
标题:  Reconstructing the evolution history of networked complex systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14983
作者:  Junya Wang,  Yi-Jiao Zhang,  Cong Xu,  Jiaze Li,  Jiachen Sun,  Jiarong Xie,  Ling Feng,  Tianshou Zhou,  Yanqing Hu
备注:  
Abstract:The evolution processes of complex systems carry key information in the systems' functional properties. Applying machine learning algorithms, we demonstrate that the historical formation process of various networked complex systems can be extracted, including protein-protein interaction, ecology, and social network systems. The recovered evolution process has demonstrations of immense scientific values, such as interpreting the evolution of protein-protein interaction network, facilitating structure prediction, and particularly revealing the key co-evolution features of network structures such as preferential attachment, community structure, local clustering, degree-degree correlation that could not be explained collectively by previous theories. Intriguingly, we discover that for large networks, if the performance of the machine learning model is slightly better than a random guess on the pairwise order of links, reliable restoration of the overall network formation process can be achieved. This suggests that evolution history restoration is generally highly feasible on empirical networks.
Subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [424]
标题:  Data-Driven Predictive Control with Adaptive Disturbance Attenuation for  Constrained Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14935
作者:  Nan Li,  Ilya Kolmanovsky,  Hong Chen
备注:  11 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a novel data-driven predictive control approach for systems subject to time-domain constraints. The approach combines the strengths of H-infinity control for rejecting disturbances and MPC for handling constraints. In particular, the approach can dynamically adapt H-infinity disturbance attenuation performance depending on measured system state and forecasted disturbance level to satisfy constraints. We establish theoretical properties of the approach including robust guarantees of closed-loop stability, disturbance attenuation, constraint satisfaction under noisy data, as well as sufficient conditions for recursive feasibility, and illustrate the approach with a numerical example.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [425]
标题:  Contrastive Learning on Multimodal Analysis of Electronic Health Records
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14926
作者:  Tianxi Cai,  Feiqing Huang,  Ryumei Nakada,  Linjun Zhang,  Doudou Zhou
备注:  34 pages
Abstract:Electronic health record (EHR) systems contain a wealth of multimodal clinical data including structured data like clinical codes and unstructured data such as clinical notes. However, many existing EHR-focused studies has traditionally either concentrated on an individual modality or merged different modalities in a rather rudimentary fashion. This approach often results in the perception of structured and unstructured data as separate entities, neglecting the inherent synergy between them. Specifically, the two important modalities contain clinically relevant, inextricably linked and complementary health information. A more complete picture of a patient's medical history is captured by the joint analysis of the two modalities of data. Despite the great success of multimodal contrastive learning on vision-language, its potential remains under-explored in the realm of multimodal EHR, particularly in terms of its theoretical understanding. To accommodate the statistical analysis of multimodal EHR data, in this paper, we propose a novel multimodal feature embedding generative model and design a multimodal contrastive loss to obtain the multimodal EHR feature representation. Our theoretical analysis demonstrates the effectiveness of multimodal learning compared to single-modality learning and connects the solution of the loss function to the singular value decomposition of a pointwise mutual information matrix. This connection paves the way for a privacy-preserving algorithm tailored for multimodal EHR feature representation learning. Simulation studies show that the proposed algorithm performs well under a variety of configurations. We further validate the clinical utility of the proposed algorithm in real-world EHR data.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [426]
标题:  Network Learning with Directional Sign Patterns
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14915
作者:  Anqi Dong,  Can Chen,  Tryphon T. Georgiou
备注:  
Abstract:Complex systems can be effectively modeled via graphs that encode networked interactions, where relations between entities or nodes are often quantified by signed edge weights, e.g., promotion/inhibition in gene regulatory networks, or encoding political of friendship differences in social networks. However, it is often the case that only an aggregate consequence of such edge weights that characterize relations may be directly observable, as in protein expression of in gene regulatory networks. Thus, learning edge weights poses a significant challenge that is further exacerbated for intricate and large-scale networks. In this article, we address a model problem to determine the strength of sign-indefinite relations that explain marginal distributions that constitute our data. To this end, we develop a paradigm akin to that of the Schrödinger bridge problem and an efficient Sinkhorn type algorithm (more properly, Schrödinger-Fortet-Sinkhorn algorithm) that allows fast convergence to parameters that minimize a relative entropy/likelihood criterion between the sought signed adjacency matrix and a prior. The formalism that we present represents a novel generalization of the earlier Schrödinger formalism in that marginal computations may incorporate weights that model directionality in underlying relations, and further, that it can be extended to high-order networks -- the Schrödinger-Fortet-Sinkhorn algorithm that we derive is applicable all the same and allows geometric convergence to a sought sign-indefinite adjacency matrix or tensor, for high-order networks. We demonstrate our framework with synthetic and real-world examples.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [427]
标题:  Adaptive Coded Federated Learning: Privacy Preservation and Straggler  Mitigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14905
作者:  Chengxi Li,  Ming Xiao,  Mikael Skoglund
备注:  
Abstract:In this article, we address the problem of federated learning in the presence of stragglers. For this problem, a coded federated learning framework has been proposed, where the central server aggregates gradients received from the non-stragglers and gradient computed from a privacy-preservation global coded dataset to mitigate the negative impact of the stragglers. However, when aggregating these gradients, fixed weights are consistently applied across iterations, neglecting the generation process of the global coded dataset and the dynamic nature of the trained model over iterations. This oversight may result in diminished learning performance. To overcome this drawback, we propose a new method named adaptive coded federated learning (ACFL). In ACFL, before the training, each device uploads a coded local dataset with additive noise to the central server to generate a global coded dataset under privacy preservation requirements. During each iteration of the training, the central server aggregates the gradients received from the non-stragglers and the gradient computed from the global coded dataset, where an adaptive policy for varying the aggregation weights is designed. Under this policy, we optimize the performance in terms of privacy and learning, where the learning performance is analyzed through convergence analysis and the privacy performance is characterized via mutual information differential privacy. Finally, we perform simulations to demonstrate the superiority of ACFL compared with the non-adaptive methods.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [428]
标题:  Joint Planning of Charging Stations and Power Systems for Heavy-Duty  Drayage Trucks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14866
作者:  Zuzhao Ye,  Nanpeng Yu,  Ran Wei
备注:  34 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:As global concerns about climate change intensify, the transition towards zero-emission freight is becoming increasingly vital. Drayage is an important segment of the freight system, typically involving the transport of goods from seaports or intermodal terminals to nearby warehouses. This sector significantly contributes to not only greenhouse gas emissions, but also pollution in densely populated areas. This study presents a holistic optimization model designed for an efficient transition to zero-emission drayage, offering cost-effective strategies for the coordinated investment planning for power systems, charging infrastructure, and electric drayage trucks. The model is validated in the Greater Los Angeles area, where regulatory goals are among the most ambitious. Furthermore, the model's design allows for easy adaptation to other regions. By focusing on drayage trucks, this study also paves the way for future research into other freight categories, establishing a foundation for a more extensive exploration in this field.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [429]
标题:  Distribution-informed and wavelength-flexible data-driven photoacoustic  oximetry
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14863
作者:  Janek Gröhl,  Kylie Yeung,  Kevin Gu,  Thomas R. Else,  Monika Golinska,  Ellie V. Bunce,  Lina Hacker,  Sarah E. Bohndiek
备注:  37 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:Significance: Photoacoustic imaging (PAI) promises to measure spatially-resolved blood oxygen saturation, but suffers from a lack of accurate and robust spectral unmixing methods to deliver on this promise. Accurate blood oxygenation estimation could have important clinical applications, from cancer detection to quantifying inflammation. Aim: This study addresses the inflexibility of existing data-driven methods for estimating blood oxygenation in PAI by introducing a recurrent neural network architecture. Approach: We created 25 simulated training dataset variations to assess neural network performance. We used a long short-term memory network to implement a wavelength-flexible network architecture and proposed the Jensen-Shannon divergence to predict the most suitable training dataset. Results: The network architecture can handle arbitrary input wavelengths and outperforms linear unmixing and the previously proposed learned spectral decolouring method. Small changes in the training data significantly affect the accuracy of our method, but we find that the Jensen-Shannon divergence correlates with the estimation error and is thus suitable for predicting the most appropriate training datasets for any given application. Conclusions: A flexible data-driven network architecture combined with the Jensen-Shannon Divergence to predict the best training data set provides a promising direction that might enable robust data-driven photoacoustic oximetry for clinical use cases.
Subjects: Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [430]
标题:  Deep Clustering Evaluation: How to Validate Internal Clustering  Validation Measures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14830
作者:  Zeya Wang,  Chenglong Ye
备注:  
Abstract:Deep clustering, a method for partitioning complex, high-dimensional data using deep neural networks, presents unique evaluation challenges. Traditional clustering validation measures, designed for low-dimensional spaces, are problematic for deep clustering, which involves projecting data into lower-dimensional embeddings before partitioning. Two key issues are identified: 1) the curse of dimensionality when applying these measures to raw data, and 2) the unreliable comparison of clustering results across different embedding spaces stemming from variations in training procedures and parameter settings in different clustering models. This paper addresses these challenges in evaluating clustering quality in deep learning. We present a theoretical framework to highlight ineffectiveness arising from using internal validation measures on raw and embedded data and propose a systematic approach to applying clustering validity indices in deep clustering contexts. Experiments show that this framework aligns better with external validation measures, effectively reducing the misguidance from the improper use of clustering validity indices in deep learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [431]
标题:  Recognizing Relating Edges in Graphs without Cycles of Length 6
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14824
作者:  Vadim E. Levit,  David Tankus
备注:  10 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1808.10137
Abstract:A graph $G$ is well-covered if all maximal independent sets are of the same cardinality. Let $w:V(G) \longrightarrow\mathbb{R}$ be a weight function. Then $G$ is $w$-well-covered if all maximal independent sets are of the same weight. An edge $xy \in E(G)$ is relating if there exists an independent set $S$ such that both $S \cup \{x\}$ and $S \cup \{y\}$ are maximal independent sets in the graph. If $xy$ is relating then $w(x)=w(y)$ for every weight function $w$ such that $G$ is $w$-well-covered. Relating edges play an important role in investigating $w$-well-covered graphs. The decision problem whether an edge in a graph is relating is NP-complete. We prove that the problem remains NP-complete when the input is restricted to graphs without cycles of length $6$. This is an unexpected result because recognizing relating edges is known to be polynomially solvable for graphs without cycles of lengths $4$ and $6$, graphs without cycles of lengths $5$ and $6$, and graphs without cycles of lengths $6$ and $7$. A graph $G$ belongs to the class $W_2$ if every two pairwise disjoint independent sets in $G$ are included in two pairwise disjoint maximum independent sets. It is known that if $G$ belongs to the class $W_2$, then it is well-covered. A vertex $v \in V(G)$ is shedding if for every independent set $S \subseteq V(G)-N[v]$, there exists a vertex $u \in N(v)$ such that $S \cup \{u\}$ is independent. Shedding vertices play an important role in studying the class $W_2$. Recognizing shedding vertices is co-NP-complete, even when the input is restricted to triangle-free graphs. We prove that the problem is co-NP-complete for graphs without cycles of length $6$.
Subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [432]
标题:  Non-Convex Robust Hypothesis Testing using Sinkhorn Uncertainty Sets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14822
作者:  Jie Wang,  Rui Gao,  Yao Xie
备注:  26 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:We present a new framework to address the non-convex robust hypothesis testing problem, wherein the goal is to seek the optimal detector that minimizes the maximum of worst-case type-I and type-II risk functions. The distributional uncertainty sets are constructed to center around the empirical distribution derived from samples based on Sinkhorn discrepancy. Given that the objective involves non-convex, non-smooth probabilistic functions that are often intractable to optimize, existing methods resort to approximations rather than exact solutions. To tackle the challenge, we introduce an exact mixed-integer exponential conic reformulation of the problem, which can be solved into a global optimum with a moderate amount of input data. Subsequently, we propose a convex approximation, demonstrating its superiority over current state-of-the-art methodologies in literature. Furthermore, we establish connections between robust hypothesis testing and regularized formulations of non-robust risk functions, offering insightful interpretations. Our numerical study highlights the satisfactory testing performance and computational efficiency of the proposed framework.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [433]
标题:  Crowdsourced Multilingual Speech Intelligibility Testing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14817
作者:  Laura Lechler,  Kamil Wojcicki
备注:  
Abstract:With the advent of generative audio features, there is an increasing need for rapid evaluation of their impact on speech intelligibility. Beyond the existing laboratory measures, which are expensive and do not scale well, there has been comparatively little work on crowdsourced assessment of intelligibility. Standards and recommendations are yet to be defined, and publicly available multilingual test materials are lacking. In response to this challenge, we propose an approach for a crowdsourced intelligibility assessment. We detail the test design, the collection and public release of the multilingual speech data, and the results of our early experiments.
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [434]
标题:  Curvature Augmented Manifold Embedding and Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14813
作者:  Yongming Liu
备注:  
Abstract:A new dimensional reduction (DR) and data visualization method, Curvature-Augmented Manifold Embedding and Learning (CAMEL), is proposed. The key novel contribution is to formulate the DR problem as a mechanistic/physics model, where the force field among nodes (data points) is used to find an n-dimensional manifold representation of the data sets. Compared with many existing attractive-repulsive force-based methods, one unique contribution of the proposed method is to include a non-pairwise force. A new force field model is introduced and discussed, inspired by the multi-body potential in lattice-particle physics and Riemann curvature in topology. A curvature-augmented force is included in CAMEL. Following this, CAMEL formulation for unsupervised learning, supervised learning, semi-supervised learning/metric learning, and inverse learning are provided. Next, CAMEL is applied to many benchmark datasets by comparing existing models, such as tSNE, UMAP, TRIMAP, and PacMap. Both visual comparison and metrics-based evaluation are performed. 14 open literature and self-proposed metrics are employed for a comprehensive comparison. Conclusions and future work are suggested based on the current investigation. Related code and demonstration are available on this https URL for interested readers to reproduce the results and other applications.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [435]
标题:  Learning with SASQuaTCh: a Novel Variational Quantum Transformer  Architecture with Kernel-Based Self-Attention
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14753
作者:  Ethan N. Evans,  Matthew Cook,  Zachary P. Bradshaw,  Margarite L. LaBorde
备注:  11 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:The widely popular transformer network popularized by the generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) has a large field of applicability, including predicting text and images, classification, and even predicting solutions to the dynamics of physical systems. In the latter context, the continuous analog of the self-attention mechanism at the heart of transformer networks has been applied to learning the solutions of partial differential equations and reveals a convolution kernel nature that can be exploited by the Fourier transform. It is well known that many quantum algorithms that have provably demonstrated a speedup over classical algorithms utilize the quantum Fourier transform. In this work, we explore quantum circuits that can efficiently express a self-attention mechanism through the perspective of kernel-based operator learning. In this perspective, we are able to represent deep layers of a vision transformer network using simple gate operations and a set of multi-dimensional quantum Fourier transforms. We analyze the computational and parameter complexity of our novel variational quantum circuit, which we call Self-Attention Sequential Quantum Transformer Channel (SASQuaTCh), and demonstrate its utility on simplified classification problems.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [436]
标题:  A Classifier-Based Approach to Multi-Class Anomaly Detection for  Astronomical Transients
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14742
作者:  Rithwik Gupta,  Daniel Muthukrishna,  Michelle Lochner
备注:  16 pages, 14 figures, 1 table, submitted to MNRAS
Abstract:Automating real-time anomaly detection is essential for identifying rare transients in the era of large-scale astronomical surveys. Modern survey telescopes are generating tens of thousands of alerts per night, and future telescopes, such as the Vera C. Rubin Observatory, are projected to increase this number dramatically. Currently, most anomaly detection algorithms for astronomical transients rely either on hand-crafted features extracted from light curves or on features generated through unsupervised representation learning, which are then coupled with standard machine learning anomaly detection algorithms. In this work, we introduce an alternative approach to detecting anomalies: using the penultimate layer of a neural network classifier as the latent space for anomaly detection. We then propose a novel method, named Multi-Class Isolation Forests (MCIF), which trains separate isolation forests for each class to derive an anomaly score for a light curve from the latent space representation given by the classifier. This approach significantly outperforms a standard isolation forest. We also use a simpler input method for real-time transient classifiers which circumvents the need for interpolation in light curves and helps the neural network model inter-passband relationships and handle irregular sampling. Our anomaly detection pipeline identifies rare classes including kilonovae, pair-instability supernovae, and intermediate luminosity transients shortly after trigger on simulated Zwicky Transient Facility light curves. Using a sample of our simulations that matched the population of anomalies expected in nature (54 anomalies and 12,040 common transients), our method was able to discover $41\pm3$ anomalies (~75% recall) after following up the top 2000 (~15%) ranked transients. Our novel method shows that classifiers can be effectively repurposed for real-time anomaly detection.
Subjects: Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [437]
标题:  NaNa and MiGu: Semantic Data Augmentation Techniques to Enhance Protein  Classification in Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14736
作者:  Yi-Shan Lan,  Pin-Yu Chen,  Tsung-Yi Ho
备注:  Submitted to ICML 2024
Abstract:Protein classification tasks are essential in drug discovery. Real-world protein structures are dynamic, which will determine the properties of proteins. However, the existing machine learning methods, like ProNet (Wang et al., 2022a), only access limited conformational characteristics and protein side-chain features, leading to impractical protein structure and inaccuracy of protein classes in their predictions. In this paper, we propose novel semantic data augmentation methods, Novel Augmentation of New Node Attributes (NaNa), and Molecular Interactions and Geometric Upgrading (MiGu) to incorporate backbone chemical and side-chain biophysical information into protein classification tasks and a co-embedding residual learning framework. Specifically, we leverage molecular biophysical, secondary structure, chemical bonds, and ionic features of proteins to facilitate protein classification tasks. Furthermore, our semantic augmentation methods and the co-embedding residual learning framework can improve the performance of GIN (Xu et al., 2019) on EC and Fold datasets (Bairoch, 2000; Andreeva et al., 2007) by 16.41% and 11.33% respectively. Our code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [438]
标题:  Chain-structured neural architecture search for financial time series  forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14695
作者:  Denis Levchenko,  Efstratios Rappos,  Shabnam Ataee,  Biagio Nigro,  Stephan Robert
备注:  17 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:We compare three popular neural architecture search strategies on chain-structured search spaces: Bayesian optimization, the hyperband method, and reinforcement learning in the context of financial time series forecasting.
Subjects: Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [439]
标题:  Analysing Diffusion Segmentation for Medical Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14440
作者:  Mathias Öttl,  Siyuan Mei,  Frauke Wilm,  Jana Steenpass,  Matthias Rübner,  Arndt Hartmann,  Matthias Beckmann,  Peter Fasching,  Andreas Maier,  Ramona Erber,  Katharina Breininger
备注:  
Abstract:Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic models have become increasingly popular due to their ability to offer probabilistic modeling and generate diverse outputs. This versatility inspired their adaptation for image segmentation, where multiple predictions of the model can produce segmentation results that not only achieve high quality but also capture the uncertainty inherent in the model. Here, powerful architectures were proposed for improving diffusion segmentation performance. However, there is a notable lack of analysis and discussions on the differences between diffusion segmentation and image generation, and thorough evaluations are missing that distinguish the improvements these architectures provide for segmentation in general from their benefit for diffusion segmentation specifically. In this work, we critically analyse and discuss how diffusion segmentation for medical images differs from diffusion image generation, with a particular focus on the training behavior. Furthermore, we conduct an assessment how proposed diffusion segmentation architectures perform when trained directly for segmentation. Lastly, we explore how different medical segmentation tasks influence the diffusion segmentation behavior and the diffusion process could be adapted accordingly. With these analyses, we aim to provide in-depth insights into the behavior of diffusion segmentation that allow for a better design and evaluation of diffusion segmentation methods in the future.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

