**编号**: [1]
标题:  Efficient Video Object Segmentation via Modulated Cross-Attention Memory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17937
作者:  Abdelrahman Shaker,  Syed Talal Wasim,  Martin Danelljan,  Salman Khan,  Ming-Hsuan Yang,  Fahad Shahbaz Khan
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, transformer-based approaches have shown promising results for semi-supervised video object segmentation. However, these approaches typically struggle on long videos due to increased GPU memory demands, as they frequently expand the memory bank every few frames. We propose a transformer-based approach, named MAVOS, that introduces an optimized and dynamic long-term modulated cross-attention (MCA) memory to model temporal smoothness without requiring frequent memory expansion. The proposed MCA effectively encodes both local and global features at various levels of granularity while efficiently maintaining consistent speed regardless of the video length. Extensive experiments on multiple benchmarks, LVOS, Long-Time Video, and DAVIS 2017, demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed contributions leading to real-time inference and markedly reduced memory demands without any degradation in segmentation accuracy on long videos. Compared to the best existing transformer-based approach, our MAVOS increases the speed by 7.6x, while significantly reducing the GPU memory by 87% with comparable segmentation performance on short and long video datasets. Notably on the LVOS dataset, our MAVOS achieves a J&F score of 63.3% while operating at 37 frames per second (FPS) on a single V100 GPU. Our code and models will be publicly available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [2]
标题:  ConvoFusion: Multi-Modal Conversational Diffusion for Co-Speech Gesture  Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17936
作者:  Muhammad Hamza Mughal,  Rishabh Dabral,  Ikhsanul Habibie,  Lucia Donatelli,  Marc Habermann,  Christian Theobalt
备注:  CVPR 2024. Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:Gestures play a key role in human communication. Recent methods for co-speech gesture generation, while managing to generate beat-aligned motions, struggle generating gestures that are semantically aligned with the utterance. Compared to beat gestures that align naturally to the audio signal, semantically coherent gestures require modeling the complex interactions between the language and human motion, and can be controlled by focusing on certain words. Therefore, we present ConvoFusion, a diffusion-based approach for multi-modal gesture synthesis, which can not only generate gestures based on multi-modal speech inputs, but can also facilitate controllability in gesture synthesis. Our method proposes two guidance objectives that allow the users to modulate the impact of different conditioning modalities (e.g. audio vs text) as well as to choose certain words to be emphasized during gesturing. Our method is versatile in that it can be trained either for generating monologue gestures or even the conversational gestures. To further advance the research on multi-party interactive gestures, the DnD Group Gesture dataset is released, which contains 6 hours of gesture data showing 5 people interacting with one another. We compare our method with several recent works and demonstrate effectiveness of our method on a variety of tasks. We urge the reader to watch our supplementary video at our website.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [3]
标题:  OmniVid: A Generative Framework for Universal Video Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17935
作者:  Junke Wang,  Dongdong Chen,  Chong Luo,  Bo He,  Lu Yuan,  Zuxuan Wu,  Yu-Gang Jiang
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:The core of video understanding tasks, such as recognition, captioning, and tracking, is to automatically detect objects or actions in a video and analyze their temporal evolution. Despite sharing a common goal, different tasks often rely on distinct model architectures and annotation formats. In contrast, natural language processing benefits from a unified output space, i.e., text sequences, which simplifies the training of powerful foundational language models, such as GPT-3, with extensive training corpora. Inspired by this, we seek to unify the output space of video understanding tasks by using languages as labels and additionally introducing time and box tokens. In this way, a variety of video tasks could be formulated as video-grounded token generation. This enables us to address various types of video tasks, including classification (such as action recognition), captioning (covering clip captioning, video question answering, and dense video captioning), and localization tasks (such as visual object tracking) within a fully shared encoder-decoder architecture, following a generative framework. Through comprehensive experiments, we demonstrate such a simple and straightforward idea is quite effective and can achieve state-of-the-art or competitive results on seven video benchmarks, providing a novel perspective for more universal video understanding. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [4]
标题:  AiOS: All-in-One-Stage Expressive Human Pose and Shape Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17934
作者:  Qingping Sun,  Yanjun Wang,  Ailing Zeng,  Wanqi Yin,  Chen Wei,  Wenjia Wang,  Haiyi Mei,  Chi Sing Leung,  Ziwei Liu,  Lei Yang,  Zhongang Cai
备注:  Homepage: this https URL
Abstract:Expressive human pose and shape estimation (a.k.a. 3D whole-body mesh recovery) involves the human body, hand, and expression estimation. Most existing methods have tackled this task in a two-stage manner, first detecting the human body part with an off-the-shelf detection model and inferring the different human body parts individually. Despite the impressive results achieved, these methods suffer from 1) loss of valuable contextual information via cropping, 2) introducing distractions, and 3) lacking inter-association among different persons and body parts, inevitably causing performance degradation, especially for crowded scenes. To address these issues, we introduce a novel all-in-one-stage framework, AiOS, for multiple expressive human pose and shape recovery without an additional human detection step. Specifically, our method is built upon DETR, which treats multi-person whole-body mesh recovery task as a progressive set prediction problem with various sequential detection. We devise the decoder tokens and extend them to our task. Specifically, we first employ a human token to probe a human location in the image and encode global features for each instance, which provides a coarse location for the later transformer block. Then, we introduce a joint-related token to probe the human joint in the image and encoder a fine-grained local feature, which collaborates with the global feature to regress the whole-body mesh. This straightforward but effective model outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods by a 9% reduction in NMVE on AGORA, a 30% reduction in PVE on EHF, a 10% reduction in PVE on ARCTIC, and a 3% reduction in PVE on EgoBody.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [5]
标题:  SLEDGE: Synthesizing Simulation Environments for Driving Agents with  Generative Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17933
作者:  Kashyap Chitta,  Daniel Dauner,  Andreas Geiger
备注:  
Abstract:SLEDGE is the first generative simulator for vehicle motion planning trained on real-world driving logs. Its core component is a learned model that is able to generate agent bounding boxes and lane graphs. The model's outputs serve as an initial state for traffic simulation. The unique properties of the entities to be generated for SLEDGE, such as their connectivity and variable count per scene, render the naive application of most modern generative models to this task non-trivial. Therefore, together with a systematic study of existing lane graph representations, we introduce a novel raster-to-vector autoencoder (RVAE). It encodes agents and the lane graph into distinct channels in a rasterized latent map. This facilitates both lane-conditioned agent generation and combined generation of lanes and agents with a Diffusion Transformer. Using generated entities in SLEDGE enables greater control over the simulation, e.g. upsampling turns or increasing traffic density. Further, SLEDGE can support 500m long routes, a capability not found in existing data-driven simulators like nuPlan. It presents new challenges for planning algorithms, evidenced by failure rates of over 40% for PDM, the winner of the 2023 nuPlan challenge, when tested on hard routes and dense traffic generated by our model. Compared to nuPlan, SLEDGE requires 500$\times$ less storage to set up (<4GB), making it a more accessible option and helping with democratizing future research in this field.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [6]
标题:  Track Everything Everywhere Fast and Robustly
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17931
作者:  Yunzhou Song,  Jiahui Lei,  Ziyun Wang,  Lingjie Liu,  Kostas Daniilidis
备注:  project page: this https URL
Abstract:We propose a novel test-time optimization approach for efficiently and robustly tracking any pixel at any time in a video. The latest state-of-the-art optimization-based tracking technique, OmniMotion, requires a prohibitively long optimization time, rendering it impractical for downstream applications. OmniMotion is sensitive to the choice of random seeds, leading to unstable convergence. To improve efficiency and robustness, we introduce a novel invertible deformation network, CaDeX++, which factorizes the function representation into a local spatial-temporal feature grid and enhances the expressivity of the coupling blocks with non-linear functions. While CaDeX++ incorporates a stronger geometric bias within its architectural design, it also takes advantage of the inductive bias provided by the vision foundation models. Our system utilizes monocular depth estimation to represent scene geometry and enhances the objective by incorporating DINOv2 long-term semantics to regulate the optimization process. Our experiments demonstrate a substantial improvement in training speed (more than \textbf{10 times} faster), robustness, and accuracy in tracking over the SoTA optimization-based method OmniMotion.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [7]
标题:  Towards Explaining Hypercomplex Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17929
作者:  Eleonora Lopez,  Eleonora Grassucci,  Debora Capriotti,  Danilo Comminiello
备注:  The paper has been accepted at IEEE WCCI 2024
Abstract:Hypercomplex neural networks are gaining increasing interest in the deep learning community. The attention directed towards hypercomplex models originates from several aspects, spanning from purely theoretical and mathematical characteristics to the practical advantage of lightweight models over conventional networks, and their unique properties to capture both global and local relations. In particular, a branch of these architectures, parameterized hypercomplex neural networks (PHNNs), has also gained popularity due to their versatility across a multitude of application domains. Nonetheless, only few attempts have been made to explain or interpret their intricacies. In this paper, we propose inherently interpretable PHNNs and quaternion-like networks, thus without the need for any post-hoc method. To achieve this, we define a type of cosine-similarity transform within the parameterized hypercomplex domain. This PHB-cos transform induces weight alignment with relevant input features and allows to reduce the model into a single linear transform, rendering it directly interpretable. In this work, we start to draw insights into how this unique branch of neural models operates. We observe that hypercomplex networks exhibit a tendency to concentrate on the shape around the main object of interest, in addition to the shape of the object itself. We provide a thorough analysis, studying single neurons of different layers and comparing them against how real-valued networks learn. The code of the paper is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [8]
标题:  MAGIS: LLM-Based Multi-Agent Framework for GitHub Issue Resolution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17927
作者:  Wei Tao,  Yucheng Zhou,  Wenqiang Zhang,  Yu Cheng
备注:  work in progress
Abstract:In software evolution, resolving the emergent issues within GitHub repositories is a complex challenge that involves not only the incorporation of new code but also the maintenance of existing functionalities. Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promise in code generation and understanding but face difficulties in code change, particularly at the repository level. To overcome these challenges, we empirically study the reason why LLMs mostly fail to resolve GitHub issues and analyze some impact factors. Motivated by the empirical findings, we propose a novel LLM-based Multi-Agent framework for GitHub Issue reSolution, MAGIS, consisting of four kinds of agents customized for the software evolution: Manager, Repository Custodian, Developer, and Quality Assurance Engineer agents. This framework leverages the collaboration of various agents in the planning and coding process to unlock the potential of LLMs to resolve GitHub issues. In experiments, we employ the SWE-bench benchmark to compare MAGIS with popular LLMs, including GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Claude-2. MAGIS can resolve 13.94% GitHub issues, which significantly outperforms the baselines. Specifically, MAGIS achieves an eight-fold increase in resolved ratio over the direct application of GPT-4, the based LLM of our method. We also analyze the factors for improving GitHub issue resolution rates, such as line location, task allocation, etc.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [9]
标题:  FastCAR: Fast Classification And Regression Multi-Task Learning via Task  Consolidation for Modelling a Continuous Property Variable of Object Classes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17926
作者:  Anoop Kini,  Andreas Jansche,  Timo Bernthaler,  Gerhard Schneider
备注:  
Abstract:FastCAR is a novel task consolidation approach in Multi-Task Learning (MTL) for a classification and a regression task, despite task heterogeneity with only subtle correlation. It addresses object classification and continuous property variable regression, a crucial use case in science and engineering. FastCAR involves a labeling transformation approach that can be used with a single-task regression network architecture. FastCAR outperforms traditional MTL model families, parametrized in the landscape of architecture and loss weighting schemes, when learning of both tasks are collectively considered (classification accuracy of 99.54%, regression mean absolute percentage error of 2.3%). The experiments performed used an Advanced Steel Property dataset contributed by us. The dataset comprises 4536 images of 224x224 pixels, annotated with object classes and hardness properties that take continuous values. With the labeling transformation and single-task regression network architecture, FastCAR achieves reduced latency and time efficiency.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [10]
标题:  AID: Attention Interpolation of Text-to-Image Diffusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17924
作者:  Qiyuan He,  Jinghao Wang,  Ziwei Liu,  Angela Yao
备注:  
Abstract:Conditional diffusion models can create unseen images in various settings, aiding image interpolation. Interpolation in latent spaces is well-studied, but interpolation with specific conditions like text or poses is less understood. Simple approaches, such as linear interpolation in the space of conditions, often result in images that lack consistency, smoothness, and fidelity. To that end, we introduce a novel training-free technique named Attention Interpolation via Diffusion (AID). Our key contributions include 1) proposing an inner/outer interpolated attention layer; 2) fusing the interpolated attention with self-attention to boost fidelity; and 3) applying beta distribution to selection to increase smoothness. We also present a variant, Prompt-guided Attention Interpolation via Diffusion (PAID), that considers interpolation as a condition-dependent generative process. This method enables the creation of new images with greater consistency, smoothness, and efficiency, and offers control over the exact path of interpolation. Our approach demonstrates effectiveness for conceptual and spatial interpolation. Code and demo are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [11]
标题:  The Need for Speed: Pruning Transformers with One Recipe
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17921
作者:  Samir Khaki,  Konstantinos N. Plataniotis
备注:  Accepted in the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) 2024
Abstract:We introduce the $\textbf{O}$ne-shot $\textbf{P}$runing $\textbf{T}$echnique for $\textbf{I}$nterchangeable $\textbf{N}$etworks ($\textbf{OPTIN}$) framework as a tool to increase the efficiency of pre-trained transformer architectures $\textit{without requiring re-training}$. Recent works have explored improving transformer efficiency, however often incur computationally expensive re-training procedures or depend on architecture-specific characteristics, thus impeding practical wide-scale adoption. To address these shortcomings, the OPTIN framework leverages intermediate feature distillation, capturing the long-range dependencies of model parameters (coined $\textit{trajectory}$), to produce state-of-the-art results on natural language, image classification, transfer learning, and semantic segmentation tasks $\textit{without re-training}$. Given a FLOP constraint, the OPTIN framework will compress the network while maintaining competitive accuracy performance and improved throughput. Particularly, we show a $\leq 2$% accuracy degradation from NLP baselines and a $0.5$% improvement from state-of-the-art methods on image classification at competitive FLOPs reductions. We further demonstrate the generalization of tasks and architecture with comparative performance using Mask2Former for semantic segmentation and cnn-style networks. OPTIN presents one of the first one-shot efficient frameworks for compressing transformer architectures that generalizes well across different class domains, in particular: natural language and image-related tasks, without $\textit{re-training}$.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [12]
标题:  TC4D: Trajectory-Conditioned Text-to-4D Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17920
作者:  Sherwin Bahmani,  Xian Liu,  Yifan Wang,  Ivan Skorokhodov,  Victor Rong,  Ziwei Liu,  Xihui Liu,  Jeong Joon Park,  Sergey Tulyakov,  Gordon Wetzstein,  Andrea Tagliasacchi,  David B. Lindell
备注:  Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:Recent techniques for text-to-4D generation synthesize dynamic 3D scenes using supervision from pre-trained text-to-video models. However, existing representations for motion, such as deformation models or time-dependent neural representations, are limited in the amount of motion they can generate-they cannot synthesize motion extending far beyond the bounding box used for volume rendering. The lack of a more flexible motion model contributes to the gap in realism between 4D generation methods and recent, near-photorealistic video generation models. Here, we propose TC4D: trajectory-conditioned text-to-4D generation, which factors motion into global and local components. We represent the global motion of a scene's bounding box using rigid transformation along a trajectory parameterized by a spline. We learn local deformations that conform to the global trajectory using supervision from a text-to-video model. Our approach enables the synthesis of scenes animated along arbitrary trajectories, compositional scene generation, and significant improvements to the realism and amount of generated motion, which we evaluate qualitatively and through a user study. Video results can be viewed on our website: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [13]
标题:  LISA: Layerwise Importance Sampling for Memory-Efficient Large Language  Model Fine-Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17919
作者:  Rui Pan,  Xiang Liu,  Shizhe Diao,  Renjie Pi,  Jipeng Zhang,  Chi Han,  Tong Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The machine learning community has witnessed impressive advancements since the first appearance of large language models (LLMs), yet their huge memory consumption has become a major roadblock to large-scale training. Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning techniques such as Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) have been proposed to alleviate this problem, but their performance still fails to match full parameter training in most large-scale fine-tuning settings. Attempting to complement this deficiency, we investigate layerwise properties of LoRA on fine-tuning tasks and observe an uncommon skewness of weight norms across different layers. Utilizing this key observation, a surprisingly simple training strategy is discovered, which outperforms both LoRA and full parameter training in a wide range of settings with memory costs as low as LoRA. We name it Layerwise Importance Sampled AdamW (LISA), a promising alternative for LoRA, which applies the idea of importance sampling to different layers in LLMs and randomly freeze most middle layers during optimization. Experimental results show that with similar or less GPU memory consumption, LISA surpasses LoRA or even full parameter tuning in downstream fine-tuning tasks, where LISA consistently outperforms LoRA by over $11\%$-$37\%$ in terms of MT-Bench scores. On large models, specifically LLaMA-2-70B, LISA achieves on-par or better performance than LoRA on MT-Bench, GSM8K, and PubMedQA, demonstrating its effectiveness across different domains.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [14]
标题:  AgentStudio: A Toolkit for Building General Virtual Agents
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17918
作者:  Longtao Zheng,  Zhiyuan Huang,  Zhenghai Xue,  Xinrun Wang,  Bo An,  Shuicheng Yan
备注:  
Abstract:Creating autonomous virtual agents capable of using arbitrary software on any digital device remains a major challenge for artificial intelligence. Two key obstacles hinder progress: insufficient infrastructure for building virtual agents in real-world environments, and the need for in-the-wild evaluation of fundamental agent abilities. To address this, we introduce AgentStudio, an online, realistic, and multimodal toolkit that covers the entire lifecycle of agent development. This includes environment setups, data collection, agent evaluation, and visualization. The observation and action spaces are highly generic, supporting both function calling and human-computer interfaces. This versatility is further enhanced by AgentStudio's graphical user interfaces, which allow efficient development of datasets and benchmarks in real-world settings. To illustrate, we introduce a visual grounding dataset and a real-world benchmark suite, both created with our graphical interfaces. Furthermore, we present several actionable insights derived from AgentStudio, e.g., general visual grounding, open-ended tool creation, learning from videos, etc. We have open-sourced the environments, datasets, benchmarks, and interfaces to promote research towards developing general virtual agents for the future.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [15]
标题:  Multi-Agent Clarity-Aware Dynamic Coverage with Gaussian Processes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17917
作者:  Devansh R. Agrawal,  Dimitra Panagou
备注:  8 pages, 2 figures, submitted to CDC 2024
Abstract:This paper presents two algorithms for multi-agent dynamic coverage in spatiotemporal environments, where the coverage algorithms are informed by the method of data assimilation. In particular, we show that by considering the information assimilation algorithm, here a Numerical Gaussian Process Kalman Filter, the influence of measurements taken at one position on the uncertainty of the estimate at another location can be computed. We use this relationship to propose new coverage algorithms. Furthermore, we show that the controllers naturally extend to the multi-agent context, allowing for a distributed-control central-information paradigm for multi-agent coverage. Finally, we demonstrate the algorithms through a realistic simulation of a team of UAVs collecting wind data over a region in Austria.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [16]
标题:  CMP: Cooperative Motion Prediction with Multi-Agent Communication
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17916
作者:  Zhuoyuan Wu,  Yuping Wang,  Hengbo Ma,  Zhaowei Li,  Hang Qiu,  Jiachen Li
备注:  
Abstract:The confluence of the advancement of Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) and the maturity of Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication has enabled the capability of cooperative connected and automated vehicles (CAVs). Building on top of cooperative perception, this paper explores the feasibility and effectiveness of cooperative motion prediction. Our method, CMP, takes LiDAR signals as input to enhance tracking and prediction capabilities. Unlike previous work that focuses separately on either cooperative perception or motion prediction, our framework, to the best of our knowledge, is the first to address the unified problem where CAVs share information in both perception and prediction modules. Incorporated into our design is the unique capability to tolerate realistic V2X bandwidth limitations and transmission delays, while dealing with bulky perception representations. We also propose a prediction aggregation module, which unifies the predictions obtained by different CAVs and generates the final prediction. Through extensive experiments and ablation studies, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in cooperative perception, tracking, and motion prediction tasks. In particular, CMP reduces the average prediction error by 17.2\% with fewer missing detections compared with the no cooperation setting. Our work marks a significant step forward in the cooperative capabilities of CAVs, showcasing enhanced performance in complex scenarios.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [17]
标题:  Leveraging Near-Field Lighting for Monocular Depth Estimation from  Endoscopy Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17915
作者:  Akshay Paruchuri,  Samuel Ehrenstein,  Shuxian Wang,  Inbar Fried,  Stephen M. Pizer,  Marc Niethammer,  Roni Sengupta
备注:  26 pages, 7 tables, 7 figures
Abstract:Monocular depth estimation in endoscopy videos can enable assistive and robotic surgery to obtain better coverage of the organ and detection of various health issues. Despite promising progress on mainstream, natural image depth estimation, techniques perform poorly on endoscopy images due to a lack of strong geometric features and challenging illumination effects. In this paper, we utilize the photometric cues, i.e., the light emitted from an endoscope and reflected by the surface, to improve monocular depth estimation. We first create two novel loss functions with supervised and self-supervised variants that utilize a per-pixel shading representation. We then propose a novel depth refinement network (PPSNet) that leverages the same per-pixel shading representation. Finally, we introduce teacher-student transfer learning to produce better depth maps from both synthetic data with supervision and clinical data with self-supervision. We achieve state-of-the-art results on the C3VD dataset while estimating high-quality depth maps from clinical data. Our code, pre-trained models, and supplementary materials can be found on our project page: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [18]
标题:  Hierarchical Multi-label Classification for Fine-level Event Extraction  from Aviation Accident Reports
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17914
作者:  Xinyu Zhao,  Hao Yan,  Yongming Liu
备注:  Accepted in INFORMS Journal of Data Science
Abstract:A large volume of accident reports is recorded in the aviation domain, which greatly values improving aviation safety. To better use those reports, we need to understand the most important events or impact factors according to the accident reports. However, the increasing number of accident reports requires large efforts from domain experts to label those reports. In order to make the labeling process more efficient, many researchers have started developing algorithms to identify the underlying events from accident reports automatically. This article argues that we can identify the events more accurately by leveraging the event taxonomy. More specifically, we consider the problem a hierarchical classification task where we first identify the coarse-level information and then predict the fine-level information. We achieve this hierarchical classification process by incorporating a novel hierarchical attention module into BERT. To further utilize the information from event taxonomy, we regularize the proposed model according to the relationship and distribution among labels. The effectiveness of our framework is evaluated with the data collected by National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). It has been shown that fine-level prediction accuracy is highly improved, and the regularization term can be beneficial to the rare event identification problem.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [19]
标题:  Domain-Specific Evaluation Strategies for AI in Journalism
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17911
作者:  Sachita Nishal,  Charlotte Li,  Nicholas Diakopoulos
备注:  Accepted to the Workshop on Evaluating AI at the ACM CHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
Abstract:News organizations today rely on AI tools to increase efficiency and productivity across various tasks in news production and distribution. These tools are oriented towards stakeholders such as reporters, editors, and readers. However, practitioners also express reservations around adopting AI technologies into the newsroom, due to the technical and ethical challenges involved in evaluating AI technology and its return on investments. This is to some extent a result of the lack of domain-specific strategies to evaluate AI models and applications. In this paper, we consider different aspects of AI evaluation (model outputs, interaction, and ethics) that can benefit from domain-specific tailoring, and suggest examples of how journalistic considerations can lead to specialized metrics or strategies. In doing so, we lay out a potential framework to guide AI evaluation in journalism, such as seen in other disciplines (e.g. law, healthcare). We also consider directions for future work, as well as how our approach might generalize to other domains.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [20]
标题:  ELGC-Net: Efficient Local-Global Context Aggregation for Remote Sensing  Change Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17909
作者:  Mubashir Noman,  Mustansar Fiaz,  Hisham Cholakkal,  Salman Khan,  Fahad Shahbaz Khan
备注:  accepted at IEEE TGRS
Abstract:Deep learning has shown remarkable success in remote sensing change detection (CD), aiming to identify semantic change regions between co-registered satellite image pairs acquired at distinct time stamps. However, existing convolutional neural network and transformer-based frameworks often struggle to accurately segment semantic change regions. Moreover, transformers-based methods with standard self-attention suffer from quadratic computational complexity with respect to the image resolution, making them less practical for CD tasks with limited training data. To address these issues, we propose an efficient change detection framework, ELGC-Net, which leverages rich contextual information to precisely estimate change regions while reducing the model size. Our ELGC-Net comprises a Siamese encoder, fusion modules, and a decoder. The focus of our design is the introduction of an Efficient Local-Global Context Aggregator module within the encoder, capturing enhanced global context and local spatial information through a novel pooled-transpose (PT) attention and depthwise convolution, respectively. The PT attention employs pooling operations for robust feature extraction and minimizes computational cost with transposed attention. Extensive experiments on three challenging CD datasets demonstrate that ELGC-Net outperforms existing methods. Compared to the recent transformer-based CD approach (ChangeFormer), ELGC-Net achieves a 1.4% gain in intersection over union metric on the LEVIR-CD dataset, while significantly reducing trainable parameters. Our proposed ELGC-Net sets a new state-of-the-art performance in remote sensing change detection benchmarks. Finally, we also introduce ELGC-Net-LW, a lighter variant with significantly reduced computational complexity, suitable for resource-constrained settings, while achieving comparable performance. Project url this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [21]
标题:  Multi-Agent Resilient Consensus under Intermittent Faulty and Malicious  Transmissions (Extended Version)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17907
作者:  Sarper Aydın,  Orhan Eren Akgün,  Stephanie Gil,  Angelia Nedić
备注:  Extended Version of CDC '24 submission
Abstract:In this work, we consider the consensus problem in which legitimate agents share their values over an undirected communication network in the presence of malicious or faulty agents. Different from the previous works, we characterize the conditions that generalize to several scenarios such as intermittent faulty or malicious transmissions, based on trust observations. As the standard trust aggregation approach based on a constant threshold fails to distinguish intermittent malicious/faulty activity, we propose a new detection algorithm utilizing time-varying thresholds and the random trust values available to legitimate agents. Under these conditions, legitimate agents almost surely determine their trusted neighborhood correctly with geometrically decaying misclassification probabilities. We further prove that the consensus process converges almost surely even in the presence of malicious agents. We also derive the probabilistic bounds on the deviation from the nominal consensus value that would have been achieved with no malicious agents in the system. Numerical results verify the convergence among agents and exemplify the deviation under different scenarios.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [22]
标题:  Search and Society: Reimagining Information Access for Radical Futures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17901
作者:  Bhaskar Mitra
备注:  
Abstract:Information retrieval (IR) technologies and research are undergoing transformative changes. It is our perspective that the community should accept this opportunity to re-center our research agendas on societal needs while dismantling the artificial separation between the work on fairness, accountability, transparency, and ethics in IR and the rest of IR research. Instead of adopting a reactionary strategy of trying to mitigate potential social harms from emerging technologies, the community should aim to proactively set the research agenda for the kinds of systems we should build inspired by diverse explicitly stated sociotechnical imaginaries. The sociotechnical imaginaries that underpin the design and development of information access technologies needs to be explicitly articulated, and we need to develop theories of change in context of these diverse perspectives. Our guiding future imaginaries must be informed by other academic fields, such as democratic theory and critical theory, and should be co-developed with social science scholars, legal scholars, civil rights and social justice activists, and artists, among others. In this perspective paper, we motivate why the community must consider this radical shift in how we do research and what we work on, and sketch a path forward towards this transformation.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [23]
标题:  Octree-GS: Towards Consistent Real-time Rendering with LOD-Structured 3D  Gaussians
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17898
作者:  Kerui Ren,  Lihan Jiang,  Tao Lu,  Mulin Yu,  Linning Xu,  Zhangkai Ni,  Bo Dai
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:The recent 3D Gaussian splatting (3D-GS) has shown remarkable rendering fidelity and efficiency compared to NeRF-based neural scene representations. While demonstrating the potential for real-time rendering, 3D-GS encounters rendering bottlenecks in large scenes with complex details due to an excessive number of Gaussian primitives located within the viewing frustum. This limitation is particularly noticeable in zoom-out views and can lead to inconsistent rendering speeds in scenes with varying details. Moreover, it often struggles to capture the corresponding level of details at different scales with its heuristic density control operation. Inspired by the Level-of-Detail (LOD) techniques, we introduce Octree-GS, featuring an LOD-structured 3D Gaussian approach supporting level-of-detail decomposition for scene representation that contributes to the final rendering results. Our model dynamically selects the appropriate level from the set of multi-resolution anchor points, ensuring consistent rendering performance with adaptive LOD adjustments while maintaining high-fidelity rendering results.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [24]
标题:  A Survey on 3D Egocentric Human Pose Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17893
作者:  Md Mushfiqur Azam,  Kevin Desai
备注:  
Abstract:Egocentric human pose estimation aims to estimate human body poses and develop body representations from a first-person camera perspective. It has gained vast popularity in recent years because of its wide range of applications in sectors like XR-technologies, human-computer interaction, and fitness tracking. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is no systematic literature review based on the proposed solutions regarding egocentric 3D human pose estimation. To that end, the aim of this survey paper is to provide an extensive overview of the current state of egocentric pose estimation research. In this paper, we categorize and discuss the popular datasets and the different pose estimation models, highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of different methods by comparative analysis. This survey can be a valuable resource for both researchers and practitioners in the field, offering insights into key concepts and cutting-edge solutions in egocentric pose estimation, its wide-ranging applications, as well as the open problems with future scope.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [25]
标题:  Image-based Novel Fault Detection with Deep Learning Classifiers using  Hierarchical Labels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17891
作者:  Nurettin Sergin,  Jiayu Huang,  Tzyy-Shuh Chang,  Hao Yan
备注:  Accepted in IISE Transaction
Abstract:One important characteristic of modern fault classification systems is the ability to flag the system when faced with previously unseen fault types. This work considers the unknown fault detection capabilities of deep neural network-based fault classifiers. Specifically, we propose a methodology on how, when available, labels regarding the fault taxonomy can be used to increase unknown fault detection performance without sacrificing model performance. To achieve this, we propose to utilize soft label techniques to improve the state-of-the-art deep novel fault detection techniques during the training process and novel hierarchically consistent detection statistics for online novel fault detection. Finally, we demonstrated increased detection performance on novel fault detection in inspection images from the hot steel rolling process, with results well replicated across multiple scenarios and baseline detection methods.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [26]
标题:  2D Gaussian Splatting for Geometrically Accurate Radiance Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17888
作者:  Binbin Huang,  Zehao Yu,  Anpei Chen,  Andreas Geiger,  Shenghua Gao
备注:  12 pages, 12 figures
Abstract:3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) has recently revolutionized radiance field reconstruction, achieving high quality novel view synthesis and fast rendering speed without baking. However, 3DGS fails to accurately represent surfaces due to the multi-view inconsistent nature of 3D Gaussians. We present 2D Gaussian Splatting (2DGS), a novel approach to model and reconstruct geometrically accurate radiance fields from multi-view images. Our key idea is to collapse the 3D volume into a set of 2D oriented planar Gaussian disks. Unlike 3D Gaussians, 2D Gaussians provide view-consistent geometry while modeling surfaces intrinsically. To accurately recover thin surfaces and achieve stable optimization, we introduce a perspective-accurate 2D splatting process utilizing ray-splat intersection and rasterization. Additionally, we incorporate depth distortion and normal consistency terms to further enhance the quality of the reconstructions. We demonstrate that our differentiable renderer allows for noise-free and detailed geometry reconstruction while maintaining competitive appearance quality, fast training speed, and real-time rendering. Our code will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [27]
标题:  The Unreasonable Ineffectiveness of the Deeper Layers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17887
作者:  Andrey Gromov,  Kushal Tirumala,  Hassan Shapourian,  Paolo Glorioso,  Daniel A. Roberts
备注:  12 + 10 pages, 5 + 4 figures
Abstract:We empirically study a simple layer-pruning strategy for popular families of open-weight pretrained LLMs, finding minimal degradation of performance on different question-answering benchmarks until after a large fraction (up to half) of the layers are removed. To prune these models, we identify the optimal block of layers to prune by considering similarity across layers; then, to "heal" the damage, we perform a small amount of finetuning. In particular, we use parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) methods, specifically quantization and Low Rank Adapters (QLoRA), such that each of our experiments can be performed on a single A100 GPU. From a practical perspective, these results suggest that layer pruning methods can complement other PEFT strategies to further reduce computational resources of finetuning on the one hand, and can improve the memory and latency of inference on the other hand. From a scientific perspective, the robustness of these LLMs to the deletion of layers implies either that current pretraining methods are not properly leveraging the parameters in the deeper layers of the network or that the shallow layers play a critical role in storing knowledge.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [28]
标题:  Compressed Multi-task embeddings for Data-Efficient Downstream training  and inference in Earth Observation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17886
作者:  Carlos Gomes,  Thomas Brunschwiler
备注:  Published at IGARSS 2024
Abstract:As repositories of large scale data in earth observation (EO) have grown, so have transfer and storage costs for model training and inference, expending significant resources. We introduce Neural Embedding Compression (NEC), based on the transfer of compressed embeddings to data consumers instead of raw data. We adapt foundation models (FM) through learned neural compression to generate multi-task embeddings while navigating the tradeoff between compression rate and embedding utility. We update only a small fraction of the FM parameters (10%) for a short training period (1% of the iterations of pre-training). We evaluate NEC on two EO tasks: scene classification and semantic segmentation. Compared with applying traditional compression to the raw data, NEC achieves similar accuracy with a 75% to 90% reduction in data. Even at 99.7% compression, performance drops by only 5% on the scene classification task. Overall, NEC is a data-efficient yet performant approach for multi-task EO modelling.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [29]
标题:  Empirical Analysis of EIP-3675: Miner Dynamics, Transaction Fees, and  Transaction Time
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17885
作者:  Umesh Bhatt,  Sarvesh Pandey
备注:  This paper has been accepted as a full paper at the IEEE International Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC) 2024
Abstract:The Ethereum Improvement Proposal 3675 (EIP-3675) marks a significant shift, transitioning from a Proof of Work (PoW) to a Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism. This transition resulted in a staggering 99.95% decrease in energy consumption. However, the transition prompts two critical questions: (1). How does EIP-3675 affect miners' dynamics? and (2). How do users determine priority fees, considering that paying too little may cause delays or non-inclusion, yet paying too much wastes money with little to no benefits? To address the first question, we present a comprehensive empirical study examining EIP-3675's effect on miner dynamics (i.e., miner participation, distribution, and the degree of randomness in miner selection). Our findings reveal that the transition has encouraged broader participation of miners in block append operation, resulting in a larger pool of unique miners ($\approx50\times$ PoW), and the change in miner distribution with the increased number of unique small category miners ($\approx60\times$ PoW). However, there is an unintended consequence: a reduction in the miner selection randomness, which signifies the negative impact of the transition to PoS-Ethereum on network decentralization. Regarding the second question, we employed regression-based machine learning models; the Gradient Boosting Regressor performed best in predicting priority fees, while the K-Neighbours Regressor was worst.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [30]
标题:  Sen2Fire: A Challenging Benchmark Dataset for Wildfire Detection using  Sentinel Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17884
作者:  Yonghao Xu,  Amanda Berg,  Leif Haglund
备注:  
Abstract:Utilizing satellite imagery for wildfire detection presents substantial potential for practical applications. To advance the development of machine learning algorithms in this domain, our study introduces the \textit{Sen2Fire} dataset--a challenging satellite remote sensing dataset tailored for wildfire detection. This dataset is curated from Sentinel-2 multi-spectral data and Sentinel-5P aerosol product, comprising a total of 2466 image patches. Each patch has a size of 512$\times$512 pixels with 13 bands. Given the distinctive sensitivities of various wavebands to wildfire responses, our research focuses on optimizing wildfire detection by evaluating different wavebands and employing a combination of spectral indices, such as normalized burn ratio (NBR) and normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI). The results suggest that, in contrast to using all bands for wildfire detection, selecting specific band combinations yields superior performance. Additionally, our study underscores the positive impact of integrating Sentinel-5 aerosol data for wildfire detection. The code and dataset are available online (this https URL).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [31]
标题:  Superior and Pragmatic Talking Face Generation with Teacher-Student  Framework
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17883
作者:  Chao Liang,  Jianwen Jiang,  Tianyun Zhong,  Gaojie Lin,  Zhengkun Rong,  Jiaqi Yang,  Yongming Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:Talking face generation technology creates talking videos from arbitrary appearance and motion signal, with the "arbitrary" offering ease of use but also introducing challenges in practical applications. Existing methods work well with standard inputs but suffer serious performance degradation with intricate real-world ones. Moreover, efficiency is also an important concern in deployment. To comprehensively address these issues, we introduce SuperFace, a teacher-student framework that balances quality, robustness, cost and editability. We first propose a simple but effective teacher model capable of handling inputs of varying qualities to generate high-quality results. Building on this, we devise an efficient distillation strategy to acquire an identity-specific student model that maintains quality with significantly reduced computational load. Our experiments validate that SuperFace offers a more comprehensive solution than existing methods for the four mentioned objectives, especially in reducing FLOPs by 99\% with the student model. SuperFace can be driven by both video and audio and allows for localized facial attributes editing.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [32]
标题:  Deepfake Generation and Detection: A Benchmark and Survey
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17881
作者:  Gan Pei,  Jiangning Zhang,  Menghan Hu,  Guangtao Zhai,  Chengjie Wang,  Zhenyu Zhang,  Jian Yang,  Chunhua Shen,  Dacheng Tao
备注:  
Abstract:In addition to the advancements in deepfake generation, corresponding detection technologies need to continuously evolve to regulate the potential misuse of deepfakes, such as for privacy invasion and phishing attacks. This survey comprehensively reviews the latest developments in deepfake generation and detection, summarizing and analyzing the current state of the art in this rapidly evolving field. We first unify task definitions, comprehensively introduce datasets and metrics, and discuss the development of generation and detection technology frameworks. Then, we discuss the development of several related sub-fields and focus on researching four mainstream deepfake fields: popular face swap, face reenactment, talking face generation, and facial attribute editing, as well as foreign detection. Subsequently, we comprehensively benchmark representative methods on popular datasets for each field, fully evaluating the latest and influential works published in top conferences/journals. Finally, we analyze the challenges and future research directions of the discussed fields. We closely follow the latest developments in this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [33]
标题:  Low-Latency Neural Stereo Streaming
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17879
作者:  Qiqi Hou,  Farzad Farhadzadeh,  Amir Said,  Guillaume Sautiere,  Hoang Le
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:The rise of new video modalities like virtual reality or autonomous driving has increased the demand for efficient multi-view video compression methods, both in terms of rate-distortion (R-D) performance and in terms of delay and runtime. While most recent stereo video compression approaches have shown promising performance, they compress left and right views sequentially, leading to poor parallelization and runtime performance. This work presents Low-Latency neural codec for Stereo video Streaming (LLSS), a novel parallel stereo video coding method designed for fast and efficient low-latency stereo video streaming. Instead of using a sequential cross-view motion compensation like existing methods, LLSS introduces a bidirectional feature shifting module to directly exploit mutual information among views and encode them effectively with a joint cross-view prior model for entropy coding. Thanks to this design, LLSS processes left and right views in parallel, minimizing latency; all while substantially improving R-D performance compared to both existing neural and conventional codecs.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [34]
标题:  Empowering Data Mesh with Federated Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17878
作者:  Haoyuan Li,  Salman Toor
备注:  In Proceedings of ACM Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Barcelona, Spain, 25th - 29th August, 2024 (Conference acronym KDD), 9 pages
Abstract:The evolution of data architecture has seen the rise of data lakes, aiming to solve the bottlenecks of data management and promote intelligent decision-making. However, this centralized architecture is limited by the proliferation of data sources and the growing demand for timely analysis and processing. A new data paradigm, Data Mesh, is proposed to overcome these challenges. Data Mesh treats domains as a first-class concern by distributing the data ownership from the central team to each data domain, while keeping the federated governance to monitor domains and their data products. Many multi-million dollar organizations like Paypal, Netflix, and Zalando have already transformed their data analysis pipelines based on this new architecture. In this decentralized architecture where data is locally preserved by each domain team, traditional centralized machine learning is incapable of conducting effective analysis across multiple domains, especially for security-sensitive organizations. To this end, we introduce a pioneering approach that incorporates Federated Learning into Data Mesh. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first open-source applied work that represents a critical advancement toward the integration of federated learning methods into the Data Mesh paradigm, underscoring the promising prospects for privacy-preserving and decentralized data analysis strategies within Data Mesh architecture.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [35]
标题:  MIND Your Language: A Multilingual Dataset for Cross-lingual News  Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17876
作者:  Andreea Iana,  Goran Glavaš,  Heiko Paulheim
备注:  Accepted at the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR 2024)
Abstract:Digital news platforms use news recommenders as the main instrument to cater to the individual information needs of readers. Despite an increasingly language-diverse online community, in which many Internet users consume news in multiple languages, the majority of news recommendation focuses on major, resource-rich languages, and English in particular. Moreover, nearly all news recommendation efforts assume monolingual news consumption, whereas more and more users tend to consume information in at least two languages. Accordingly, the existing body of work on news recommendation suffers from a lack of publicly available multilingual benchmarks that would catalyze development of news recommenders effective in multilingual settings and for low-resource languages. Aiming to fill this gap, we introduce xMIND, an open, multilingual news recommendation dataset derived from the English MIND dataset using machine translation, covering a set of 14 linguistically and geographically diverse languages, with digital footprints of varying sizes. Using xMIND, we systematically benchmark several state-of-the-art content-based neural news recommenders (NNRs) in both zero-shot (ZS-XLT) and few-shot (FS-XLT) cross-lingual transfer scenarios, considering both monolingual and bilingual news consumption patterns. Our findings reveal that (i) current NNRs, even when based on a multilingual language model, suffer from substantial performance losses under ZS-XLT and that (ii) inclusion of target-language data in FS-XLT training has limited benefits, particularly when combined with a bilingual news consumption. Our findings thus warrant a broader research effort in multilingual and cross-lingual news recommendation. The xMIND dataset is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [36]
标题:  Addressing Social Misattributions of Large Language Models: An  HCXAI-based Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17873
作者:  Andrea Ferrario,  Alberto Termine,  Alessandro Facchini
备注:  Extended version of the manuscript accepted for the ACM CHI Workshop on Human-Centered Explainable AI 2024 (HCXAI24)
Abstract:Human-centered explainable AI (HCXAI) advocates for the integration of social aspects into AI explanations. Central to the HCXAI discourse is the Social Transparency (ST) framework, which aims to make the socio-organizational context of AI systems accessible to their users. In this work, we suggest extending the ST framework to address the risks of social misattributions in Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly in sensitive areas like mental health. In fact LLMs, which are remarkably capable of simulating roles and personas, may lead to mismatches between designers' intentions and users' perceptions of social attributes, risking to promote emotional manipulation and dangerous behaviors, cases of epistemic injustice, and unwarranted trust. To address these issues, we propose enhancing the ST framework with a fifth 'W-question' to clarify the specific social attributions assigned to LLMs by its designers and users. This addition aims to bridge the gap between LLM capabilities and user perceptions, promoting the ethically responsible development and use of LLM-based technology.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [37]
标题:  Boosting Diffusion Models with Moving Average Sampling in Frequency  Domain
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17870
作者:  Yurui Qian,  Qi Cai,  Yingwei Pan,  Yehao Li,  Ting Yao,  Qibin Sun,  Tao Mei
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Diffusion models have recently brought a powerful revolution in image generation. Despite showing impressive generative capabilities, most of these models rely on the current sample to denoise the next one, possibly resulting in denoising instability. In this paper, we reinterpret the iterative denoising process as model optimization and leverage a moving average mechanism to ensemble all the prior samples. Instead of simply applying moving average to the denoised samples at different timesteps, we first map the denoised samples to data space and then perform moving average to avoid distribution shift across timesteps. In view that diffusion models evolve the recovery from low-frequency components to high-frequency details, we further decompose the samples into different frequency components and execute moving average separately on each component. We name the complete approach "Moving Average Sampling in Frequency domain (MASF)". MASF could be seamlessly integrated into mainstream pre-trained diffusion models and sampling schedules. Extensive experiments on both unconditional and conditional diffusion models demonstrate that our MASF leads to superior performances compared to the baselines, with almost negligible additional complexity cost.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [38]
标题:  To Supervise or Not to Supervise: Understanding and Addressing the Key  Challenges of 3D Transfer Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17869
作者:  Souhail Hadgi,  Lei Li,  Maks Ovsjanikov
备注:  
Abstract:Transfer learning has long been a key factor in the advancement of many fields including 2D image analysis. Unfortunately, its applicability in 3D data processing has been relatively limited. While several approaches for 3D transfer learning have been proposed in recent literature, with contrastive learning gaining particular prominence, most existing methods in this domain have only been studied and evaluated in limited scenarios. Most importantly, there is currently a lack of principled understanding of both when and why 3D transfer learning methods are applicable. Remarkably, even the applicability of standard supervised pre-training is poorly understood. In this work, we conduct the first in-depth quantitative and qualitative investigation of supervised and contrastive pre-training strategies and their utility in downstream 3D tasks. We demonstrate that layer-wise analysis of learned features provides significant insight into the downstream utility of trained networks. Informed by this analysis, we propose a simple geometric regularization strategy, which improves the transferability of supervised pre-training. Our work thus sheds light onto both the specific challenges of 3D transfer learning, as well as strategies to overcome them.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [39]
标题:  An AI-Native Runtime for Multi-Wearable Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17863
作者:  Chulhong Min,  Utku Günay Acer,  SiYoung Jang,  Sangwon Choi,  Diana A. Vasile,  Taesik Gong,  Juheon Yi,  Fahim Kawsar
备注:  7 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:The miniaturization of AI accelerators is paving the way for next-generation wearable applications within wearable technologies. We introduce Mojito, an AI-native runtime with advanced MLOps designed to facilitate the development and deployment of these applications on wearable devices. It emphasizes the necessity of dynamic orchestration of distributed resources equipped with ultra-low-power AI accelerators to overcome challenges associated with unpredictable runtime environments. Through its innovative approaches, Mojito demonstrates how future wearable technologies can evolve to be more autonomous.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [40]
标题:  Proceedings Sixth Workshop on Models for Formal Analysis of Real Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17862
作者:  Frédéric Lang (INRIA Grenoble Rhône-Alpes, France),  Matthias Volk (Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands)
备注:  
Abstract:This volume contains the proceedings of MARS 2024, the sixth workshop on Models for Formal Analysis of Real Systems, held as part of ETAPS 2024, the European Joint Conferences on Theory and Practice of Software. The MARS workshops bring together researchers from different communities who are developing formal models of real systems in areas where complex models occur, such as networks, cyber-physical systems, hardware/software co-design, biology, etc. The motivation and aim for MARS stem from the following two observations: (1) Large case studies are essential to show that specification formalisms and modelling techniques are applicable to real systems, whereas many research papers only consider toy examples or tiny case studies. (2) Developing an accurate model of a real system takes a large amount of time, often months or years. In most scientific papers, however, salient details of the model need to be skipped due to lack of space, and to leave room for formal verification methodologies and results. The MARS workshops aim at remedying these issues, emphasising modelling over verification, so as to retain lessons learnt from formal modelling, which are not usually discussed elsewhere.
Subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [41]
标题:  Stealthy Deactivation of Safety Filters
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17861
作者:  Daniel Arnström,  André M.H. Teixeira
备注:  ECC24
Abstract:Safety filters ensure that only safe control actions are executed. We propose a simple and stealthy false-data injection attack for deactivating such safety filters; in particular, we focus on deactivating safety filters that are based on control-barrier functions. The attack injects false sensor measurements to bias state estimates to the interior of a safety region, which makes the safety filter accept unsafe control actions. To detect such attacks, we also propose a detector that detects biases manufactured by the proposed attack policy, which complements conventional detectors when safety filters are used. The proposed attack policy and detector are illustrated on a double integrator example.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [42]
标题:  Exploring LLMs as a Source of Targeted Synthetic Textual Data to  Minimize High Confidence Misclassifications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17860
作者:  Philip Lippmann,  Matthijs Spaan,  Jie Yang
备注:  
Abstract:Natural Language Processing (NLP) models optimized for predictive performance often make high confidence errors and suffer from vulnerability to adversarial and out-of-distribution data. Existing work has mainly focused on mitigation of such errors using either humans or an automated approach. In this study, we explore the usage of large language models (LLMs) for data augmentation as a potential solution to the issue of NLP models making wrong predictions with high confidence during classification tasks. We compare the effectiveness of synthetic data generated by LLMs with that of human data obtained via the same procedure. For mitigation, humans or LLMs provide natural language characterizations of high confidence misclassifications to generate synthetic data, which are then used to extend the training set. We conduct an extensive evaluation of our approach on three classification tasks and demonstrate its effectiveness in reducing the number of high confidence misclassifications present in the model, all while maintaining the same level of accuracy. Moreover, we find that the cost gap between humans and LLMs surpasses an order of magnitude, as LLMs attain human-like performance while being more scalable.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [43]
标题:  ChroniclingAmericaQA: A Large-scale Question Answering Dataset based on  Historical American Newspaper Pages
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17859
作者:  Bhawna Piryani,  Jamshid Mozafari,  Adam Jatowt
备注:  Accepted at SIGIR 2024
Abstract:Question answering (QA) and Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) tasks have significantly advanced in recent years due to the rapid development of deep learning techniques and, more recently, large language models. At the same time, many benchmark datasets have become available for QA and MRC tasks. However, most existing large-scale benchmark datasets have been created predominantly using synchronous document collections like Wikipedia or the Web. Archival document collections, such as historical newspapers, contain valuable information from the past that is still not widely used to train large language models. To further contribute to advancing QA and MRC tasks and to overcome the limitation of previous datasets, we introduce ChroniclingAmericaQA, a large-scale dataset with 485K question-answer pairs created based on the historical newspaper collection Chronicling America. Our dataset is constructed from a subset of the Chronicling America newspaper collection spanning 120 years. One of the significant challenges for utilizing digitized historical newspaper collections is the low quality of OCR text. Therefore, to enable realistic testing of QA models, our dataset can be used in three different ways: answering questions from raw and noisy content, answering questions from cleaner, corrected version of the content, as well as answering questions from scanned images of newspaper pages. This and the fact that ChroniclingAmericaQA spans the longest time period among available QA datasets make it quite a unique and useful resource.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [44]
标题:  Verbing Weirds Language (Models): Evaluation of English Zero-Derivation  in Five LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17856
作者:  David R. Mortensen,  Valentina Izrailevitch,  Yunze Xiao,  Hinrich Schütze,  Leonie Weissweiler
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Lexical-syntactic flexibility, in the form of conversion (or zero-derivation) is a hallmark of English morphology. In conversion, a word with one part of speech is placed in a non-prototypical context, where it is coerced to behave as if it had a different part of speech. However, while this process affects a large part of the English lexicon, little work has been done to establish the degree to which language models capture this type of generalization. This paper reports the first study on the behavior of large language models with reference to conversion. We design a task for testing lexical-syntactic flexibility -- the degree to which models can generalize over words in a construction with a non-prototypical part of speech. This task is situated within a natural language inference paradigm. We test the abilities of five language models -- two proprietary models (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4), three open-source models (Mistral 7B, Falcon 40B, and Llama 2 70B). We find that GPT-4 performs best on the task, followed by GPT-3.5, but that the open source language models are also able to perform it and that the 7B parameter Mistral displays as little difference between its baseline performance on the natural language inference task and the non-prototypical syntactic category task, as the massive GPT-4.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [45]
标题:  Using Domain Knowledge to Guide Dialog Structure Induction via Neural  Probabilistic Soft Logic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17853
作者:  Connor Pryor,  Quan Yuan,  Jeremiah Liu,  Mehran Kazemi,  Deepak Ramachandran,  Tania Bedrax-Weiss,  Lise Getoor
备注:  
Abstract:Dialog Structure Induction (DSI) is the task of inferring the latent dialog structure (i.e., a set of dialog states and their temporal transitions) of a given goal-oriented dialog. It is a critical component for modern dialog system design and discourse analysis. Existing DSI approaches are often purely data-driven, deploy models that infer latent states without access to domain knowledge, underperform when the training corpus is limited/noisy, or have difficulty when test dialogs exhibit distributional shifts from the training domain. This work explores a neural-symbolic approach as a potential solution to these problems. We introduce Neural Probabilistic Soft Logic Dialogue Structure Induction (NEUPSL DSI), a principled approach that injects symbolic knowledge into the latent space of a generative neural model. We conduct a thorough empirical investigation on the effect of NEUPSL DSI learning on hidden representation quality, few-shot learning, and out-of-domain generalization performance. Over three dialog structure induction datasets and across unsupervised and semi-supervised settings for standard and cross-domain generalization, the injection of symbolic knowledge using NEUPSL DSI provides a consistent boost in performance over the canonical baselines.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [46]
标题:  Counterfactual Fairness through Transforming Data Orthogonal to Bias
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17852
作者:  Shuyi Chen,  Shixiang Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:Machine learning models have shown exceptional prowess in solving complex issues across various domains. Nonetheless, these models can sometimes exhibit biased decision-making, leading to disparities in treatment across different groups. Despite the extensive research on fairness, the nuanced effects of multivariate and continuous sensitive variables on decision-making outcomes remain insufficiently studied. We introduce a novel data pre-processing algorithm, Orthogonal to Bias (OB), designed to remove the influence of a group of continuous sensitive variables, thereby facilitating counterfactual fairness in machine learning applications. Our approach is grounded in the assumption of a jointly normal distribution within a structural causal model (SCM), proving that counterfactual fairness can be achieved by ensuring the data is uncorrelated with sensitive variables. The OB algorithm is model-agnostic, catering to a wide array of machine learning models and tasks, and includes a sparse variant to enhance numerical stability through regularization. Through empirical evaluation on simulated and real-world datasets - including the adult income and the COMPAS recidivism datasets - our methodology demonstrates its capacity to enable fairer outcomes without compromising accuracy.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [47]
标题:  A survey on road safety and traffic efficiency vehicular applications  based on C-V2X technologies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17851
作者:  Ignacio Soto,  Maria Calderon,  Oscar Amador,  Manuel Urueña
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, the use of cellular network technologies to provide communication-based applications to vehicles has received considerable attention. 3GPP, the standardization body responsible for cellular networks specifications, is developing technologies to meet the requirements of vehicular communication applications, and the research community is testing and validating the ability of those technologies to implement different applications. This survey presents the body of work dealing with the use of cellular technologies to implement communication-based applications for the connected vehicle. We focus on basic and advanced road safety and traffic efficiency applications, which are critically important for the future of vehicular networks. We start by describing the different cellular-related technologies that have a role to play in providing services to the connected vehicle, propose a classification of types of communication used in vehicular applications, and then apply this classification to organize and present recent research work on the topic. Finally, we identify the main challenges in the use of cellular technologies to develop applications for the connected vehicle.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [48]
标题:  ArabicaQA: A Comprehensive Dataset for Arabic Question Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17848
作者:  Abdelrahman Abdallah,  Mahmoud Kasem,  Mahmoud Abdalla,  Mohamed Mahmoud,  Mohamed Elkasaby,  Yasser Elbendary,  Adam Jatowt
备注:  Accepted at SIGIR 2024
Abstract:In this paper, we address the significant gap in Arabic natural language processing (NLP) resources by introducing ArabicaQA, the first large-scale dataset for machine reading comprehension and open-domain question answering in Arabic. This comprehensive dataset, consisting of 89,095 answerable and 3,701 unanswerable questions created by crowdworkers to look similar to answerable ones, along with additional labels of open-domain questions marks a crucial advancement in Arabic NLP resources. We also present AraDPR, the first dense passage retrieval model trained on the Arabic Wikipedia corpus, specifically designed to tackle the unique challenges of Arabic text retrieval. Furthermore, our study includes extensive benchmarking of large language models (LLMs) for Arabic question answering, critically evaluating their performance in the Arabic language context. In conclusion, ArabicaQA, AraDPR, and the benchmarking of LLMs in Arabic question answering offer significant advancements in the field of Arabic NLP. The dataset and code are publicly accessible for further research this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [49]
标题:  Climate Downscaling: A Deep-Learning Based Super-resolution Model of  Precipitation Data with Attention Block and Skip Connections
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17847
作者:  Chia-Hao Chiang,  Zheng-Han Huang,  Liwen Liu,  Hsin-Chien Liang,  Yi-Chi Wang,  Wan-Ling Tseng,  Chao Wang,  Che-Ta Chen,  Ko-Chih Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Human activities accelerate consumption of fossil fuels and produce greenhouse gases, resulting in urgent issues today: global warming and the climate change. These indirectly cause severe natural disasters, plenty of lives suffering and huge losses of agricultural properties. To mitigate impacts on our lands, scientists are developing renewable, reusable, and clean energies and climatologists are trying to predict the extremes. Meanwhile, governments are publicizing resource-saving policies for a more eco-friendly society and arousing environment awareness. One of the most influencing factors is the precipitation, bringing condensed water vapor onto lands. Water resources are the most significant but basic needs in society, not only supporting our livings, but also economics. In Taiwan, although the average annual precipitation is up to 2,500 millimeter (mm), the water allocation for each person is lower than the global average due to drastically geographical elevation changes and uneven distribution through the year. Thus, it is crucial to track and predict the rainfall to make the most use of it and to prevent the floods. However, climate models have limited resolution and require intensive computational power for local-scale use. Therefore, we proposed a deep convolutional neural network with skip connections, attention blocks, and auxiliary data concatenation, in order to downscale the low-resolution precipitation data into high-resolution one. Eventually, we compare with other climate downscaling methods and show better performance in metrics of Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), Pearson Correlation, structural similarity index (SSIM), and forecast indicators.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [50]
标题:  Hierarchical Open-Vocabulary 3D Scene Graphs for Language-Grounded Robot  Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17846
作者:  Abdelrhman Werby,  Chenguang Huang,  Martin Büchner,  Abhinav Valada,  Wolfram Burgard
备注:  Code and video are available at this http URL
Abstract:Recent open-vocabulary robot mapping methods enrich dense geometric maps with pre-trained visual-language features. While these maps allow for the prediction of point-wise saliency maps when queried for a certain language concept, large-scale environments and abstract queries beyond the object level still pose a considerable hurdle, ultimately limiting language-grounded robotic navigation. In this work, we present HOV-SG, a hierarchical open-vocabulary 3D scene graph mapping approach for language-grounded robot navigation. Leveraging open-vocabulary vision foundation models, we first obtain state-of-the-art open-vocabulary segment-level maps in 3D and subsequently construct a 3D scene graph hierarchy consisting of floor, room, and object concepts, each enriched with open-vocabulary features. Our approach is able to represent multi-story buildings and allows robotic traversal of those using a cross-floor Voronoi graph. HOV-SG is evaluated on three distinct datasets and surpasses previous baselines in open-vocabulary semantic accuracy on the object, room, and floor level while producing a 75% reduction in representation size compared to dense open-vocabulary maps. In order to prove the efficacy and generalization capabilities of HOV-SG, we showcase successful long-horizon language-conditioned robot navigation within real-world multi-storage environments. We provide code and trial video data at this http URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [51]
标题:  TractOracle: towards an anatomically-informed reward function for  RL-based tractography
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17845
作者:  Antoine Théberge,  Maxime Descoteaux,  Pierre-Marc Jodoin
备注:  
Abstract:Reinforcement learning (RL)-based tractography is a competitive alternative to machine learning and classical tractography algorithms due to its high anatomical accuracy obtained without the need for any annotated data. However, the reward functions so far used to train RL agents do not encapsulate anatomical knowledge which causes agents to generate spurious false positives tracts. In this paper, we propose a new RL tractography system, TractOracle, which relies on a reward network trained for streamline classification. This network is used both as a reward function during training as well as a mean for stopping the tracking process early and thus reduce the number of false positive streamlines. This makes our system a unique method that evaluates and reconstructs WM streamlines at the same time. We report an improvement of true positive ratios by almost 20\% and a reduction of 3x of false positive ratios on one dataset and an increase between 2x and 7x in the number true positive streamlines on another dataset.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [52]
标题:  Mechanistic Design and Scaling of Hybrid Architectures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17844
作者:  Michael Poli,  Armin W Thomas,  Eric Nguyen,  Pragaash Ponnusamy,  Björn Deiseroth,  Kristian Kersting,  Taiji Suzuki,  Brian Hie,  Stefano Ermon,  Christopher Ré,  Ce Zhang,  Stefano Massaroli
备注:  
Abstract:The development of deep learning architectures is a resource-demanding process, due to a vast design space, long prototyping times, and high compute costs associated with at-scale model training and evaluation. We set out to simplify this process by grounding it in an end-to-end mechanistic architecture design (MAD) pipeline, encompassing small-scale capability unit tests predictive of scaling laws. Through a suite of synthetic token manipulation tasks such as compression and recall, designed to probe capabilities, we identify and test new hybrid architectures constructed from a variety of computational primitives. We experimentally validate the resulting architectures via an extensive compute-optimal and a new state-optimal scaling law analysis, training over 500 language models between 70M to 7B parameters. Surprisingly, we find MAD synthetics to correlate with compute-optimal perplexity, enabling accurate evaluation of new architectures via isolated proxy tasks. The new architectures found via MAD, based on simple ideas such as hybridization and sparsity, outperform state-of-the-art Transformer, convolutional, and recurrent architectures (Transformer++, Hyena, Mamba) in scaling, both at compute-optimal budgets and in overtrained regimes. Overall, these results provide evidence that performance on curated synthetic tasks can be predictive of scaling laws, and that an optimal architecture should leverage specialized layers via a hybrid topology.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [53]
标题:  A Sociotechnical Framework For Addressing Stigma and Designing  Personalized Digital Health Products
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17843
作者:  Danielly de Paula,  Daniel Juehling,  Falk Uebernickel
备注:  19 pages, 5 Tables, 1 Figure
Abstract:Stigma, a recognized global barrier to effective disease management, impacts social interactions, resource access, and psychological well-being. In this study, we developed a patient-centered framework for deriving design requirements and interventions for health conditions subject to social stigma. This study introduces a patient-centered framework, grounded in sociotechnical systems theory, to create tailored interventions and design requirements for health conditions influenced by social stigma. We tested this framework through a mixed-method study on chronic pelvic pain patients. Our approach led to the identification of ten design requirements that encompass behavioral and psychological support and strategies for day-to-day living. The findings reveal a preference among CPP patients for priming and social support interventions. This study underscores the value of a systems-based perspective in healthcare, advocating for a nuanced, patient-centered approach that addresses the complex nature of health conditions affected by social stigma. It contributes to the ongoing discourse on integrating STS theory into healthcare frameworks, highlighting the need for targeted strategies to combat the complexities of stigma in patient care.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [54]
标题:  Normalized B-spline-like representation for low-degree Hermite  osculatory interpolation problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17841
作者:  M. Boushabi,  S. Eddargani,  M. J. Ibáñez,  A. Lamnii
备注:  
Abstract:This paper deals with Hermite osculatory interpolating splines. For a partition of a real interval endowed with a refinement consisting in dividing each subinterval into two small subintervals, we consider a space of smooth splines with additional smoothness at the vertices of the initial partition, and of the lowest possible degree. A normalized B-spline-like representation for the considered spline space is provided. In addition, several quasi-interpolation operators based on blossoming and control polynomials have also been developed. Some numerical tests are presented and compared with some recent works to illustrate the performance of the proposed approach.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [55]
标题:  ReMamber: Referring Image Segmentation with Mamba Twister
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17839
作者:  Yuhuan Yang,  Chaofan Ma,  Jiangchao Yao,  Zhun Zhong,  Ya Zhang,  Yanfeng Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Referring Image Segmentation (RIS) leveraging transformers has achieved great success on the interpretation of complex visual-language tasks. However, the quadratic computation cost makes it resource-consuming in capturing long-range visual-language dependencies. Fortunately, Mamba addresses this with efficient linear complexity in processing. However, directly applying Mamba to multi-modal interactions presents challenges, primarily due to inadequate channel interactions for the effective fusion of multi-modal data. In this paper, we propose ReMamber, a novel RIS architecture that integrates the power of Mamba with a multi-modal Mamba Twister block. The Mamba Twister explicitly models image-text interaction, and fuses textual and visual features through its unique channel and spatial twisting mechanism. We achieve the state-of-the-art on three challenging benchmarks. Moreover, we conduct thorough analyses of ReMamber and discuss other fusion designs using Mamba. These provide valuable perspectives for future research.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [56]
标题:  GTA-HDR: A Large-Scale Synthetic Dataset for HDR Image Reconstruction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17837
作者:  Hrishav Bakul Barua,  Kalin Stefanov,  KokSheik Wong,  Abhinav Dhall,  Ganesh Krishnasamy
备注:  Submitted to IEEE
Abstract:High Dynamic Range (HDR) content (i.e., images and videos) has a broad range of applications. However, capturing HDR content from real-world scenes is expensive and time- consuming. Therefore, the challenging task of reconstructing visually accurate HDR images from their Low Dynamic Range (LDR) counterparts is gaining attention in the vision research community. A major challenge in this research problem is the lack of datasets, which capture diverse scene conditions (e.g., lighting, shadows, weather, locations, landscapes, objects, humans, buildings) and various image features (e.g., color, contrast, saturation, hue, luminance, brightness, radiance). To address this gap, in this paper, we introduce GTA-HDR, a large-scale synthetic dataset of photo-realistic HDR images sampled from the GTA-V video game. We perform thorough evaluation of the proposed dataset, which demonstrates significant qualitative and quantitative improvements of the state-of-the-art HDR image reconstruction methods. Furthermore, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed dataset and its impact on additional computer vision tasks including 3D human pose estimation, human body part segmentation, and holistic scene segmentation. The dataset, data collection pipeline, and evaluation code are available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [57]
标题:  A foundation model utilizing chest CT volumes and radiology reports for  supervised-level zero-shot detection of abnormalities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17834
作者:  Ibrahim Ethem Hamamci,  Sezgin Er,  Furkan Almas,  Ayse Gulnihan Simsek,  Sevval Nil Esirgun,  Irem Dogan,  Muhammed Furkan Dasdelen,  Bastian Wittmann,  Enis Simsar,  Mehmet Simsar,  Emine Bensu Erdemir,  Abdullah Alanbay,  Anjany Sekuboyina,  Berkan Lafci,  Mehmet K. Ozdemir,  Bjoern Menze
备注:  
Abstract:A major challenge in computational research in 3D medical imaging is the lack of comprehensive datasets. Addressing this issue, our study introduces CT-RATE, the first 3D medical imaging dataset that pairs images with textual reports. CT-RATE consists of 25,692 non-contrast chest CT volumes, expanded to 50,188 through various reconstructions, from 21,304 unique patients, along with corresponding radiology text reports. Leveraging CT-RATE, we developed CT-CLIP, a CT-focused contrastive language-image pre-training framework. As a versatile, self-supervised model, CT-CLIP is designed for broad application and does not require task-specific training. Remarkably, CT-CLIP outperforms state-of-the-art, fully supervised methods in multi-abnormality detection across all key metrics, thus eliminating the need for manual annotation. We also demonstrate its utility in case retrieval, whether using imagery or textual queries, thereby advancing knowledge dissemination. The open-source release of CT-RATE and CT-CLIP marks a significant advancement in medical AI, enhancing 3D imaging analysis and fostering innovation in healthcare.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [58]
标题:  GPFL: A Gradient Projection-Based Client Selection Framework for  Efficient Federated Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17833
作者:  Shijie Na,  Yuzhi Liang,  Siu-Ming Yiu
备注:  8 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:Federated learning client selection is crucial for determining participant clients while balancing model accuracy and communication efficiency. Existing methods have limitations in handling data heterogeneity, computational burdens, and independent client treatment. To address these challenges, we propose GPFL, which measures client value by comparing local and global descent directions. We also employ an Exploit-Explore mechanism to enhance performance. Experimental results on FEMINST and CIFAR-10 datasets demonstrate that GPFL outperforms baselines in Non-IID scenarios, achieving over 9\% improvement in FEMINST test accuracy. Moreover, GPFL exhibits shorter computation times through pre-selection and parameter reuse in federated learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [59]
标题:  Learning the Optimal Power Flow: Environment Design Matters
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17831
作者:  Thomas Wolgast,  Astrid Nieße
备注:  
Abstract:To solve the optimal power flow (OPF) problem, reinforcement learning (RL) emerges as a promising new approach. However, the RL-OPF literature is strongly divided regarding the exact formulation of the OPF problem as an RL environment. In this work, we collect and implement diverse environment design decisions from the literature regarding training data, observation space, episode definition, and reward function choice. In an experimental analysis, we show the significant impact of these environment design options on RL-OPF training performance. Further, we derive some first recommendations regarding the choice of these design decisions. The created environment framework is fully open-source and can serve as a benchmark for future research in the RL-OPF field.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [60]
标题:  Assessment of Multimodal Large Language Models in Alignment with Human  Values
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17830
作者:  Zhelun Shi,  Zhipin Wang,  Hongxing Fan,  Zaibin Zhang,  Lijun Li,  Yongting Zhang,  Zhenfei Yin,  Lu Sheng,  Yu Qiao,  Jing Shao
备注:  arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2311.02692
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) aim to serve as versatile assistants aligned with human values, as defined by the principles of being helpful, honest, and harmless (hhh). However, in terms of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), despite their commendable performance in perception and reasoning tasks, their alignment with human values remains largely unexplored, given the complexity of defining hhh dimensions in the visual world and the difficulty in collecting relevant data that accurately mirrors real-world situations. To address this gap, we introduce Ch3Ef, a Compreh3ensive Evaluation dataset and strategy for assessing alignment with human expectations. Ch3Ef dataset contains 1002 human-annotated data samples, covering 12 domains and 46 tasks based on the hhh principle. We also present a unified evaluation strategy supporting assessment across various scenarios and different perspectives. Based on the evaluation results, we summarize over 10 key findings that deepen the understanding of MLLM capabilities, limitations, and the dynamic relationships between evaluation levels, guiding future advancements in the field.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [61]
标题:  DiffH2O: Diffusion-Based Synthesis of Hand-Object Interactions from  Textual Descriptions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17827
作者:  Sammy Christen,  Shreyas Hampali,  Fadime Sener,  Edoardo Remelli,  Tomas Hodan,  Eric Sauser,  Shugao Ma,  Bugra Tekin
备注:  Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:Generating natural hand-object interactions in 3D is challenging as the resulting hand and object motions are expected to be physically plausible and semantically meaningful. Furthermore, generalization to unseen objects is hindered by the limited scale of available hand-object interaction datasets. We propose DiffH2O, a novel method to synthesize realistic, one or two-handed object interactions from provided text prompts and geometry of the object. The method introduces three techniques that enable effective learning from limited data. First, we decompose the task into a grasping stage and a text-based interaction stage and use separate diffusion models for each. In the grasping stage, the model only generates hand motions, whereas in the interaction phase both hand and object poses are synthesized. Second, we propose a compact representation that tightly couples hand and object poses. Third, we propose two different guidance schemes to allow more control of the generated motions: grasp guidance and detailed textual guidance. Grasp guidance takes a single target grasping pose and guides the diffusion model to reach this grasp at the end of the grasping stage, which provides control over the grasping pose. Given a grasping motion from this stage, multiple different actions can be prompted in the interaction phase. For textual guidance, we contribute comprehensive text descriptions to the GRAB dataset and show that they enable our method to have more fine-grained control over hand-object interactions. Our quantitative and qualitative evaluation demonstrates that the proposed method outperforms baseline methods and leads to natural hand-object motions. Moreover, we demonstrate the practicality of our framework by utilizing a hand pose estimate from an off-the-shelf pose estimator for guidance, and then sampling multiple different actions in the interaction stage.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [62]
标题:  On the Computational Complexity of Stackelberg Planning and  Meta-Operator Verification: Technical Report
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17826
作者:  Gregor Behnke,  Marcel Steinmetz
备注:  Presented at ICAPS24
Abstract:Stackelberg planning is a recently introduced single-turn two-player adversarial planning model, where two players are acting in a joint classical planning task, the objective of the first player being hampering the second player from achieving its goal. This places the Stackelberg planning problem somewhere between classical planning and general combinatorial two-player games. But, where exactly? All investigations of Stackelberg planning so far focused on practical aspects. We close this gap by conducting the first theoretical complexity analysis of Stackelberg planning. We show that in general Stackelberg planning is actually no harder than classical planning. Under a polynomial plan-length restriction, however, Stackelberg planning is a level higher up in the polynomial complexity hierarchy, suggesting that compilations into classical planning come with a worst-case exponential plan-length increase. In attempts to identify tractable fragments, we further study its complexity under various planning task restrictions, showing that Stackelberg planning remains intractable where classical planning is not. We finally inspect the complexity of meta-operator verification, a problem that has been recently connected to Stackelberg planning.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [63]
标题:  Efficient Image Pre-Training with Siamese Cropped Masked Autoencoders
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17823
作者:  Alexandre Eymaël,  Renaud Vandeghen,  Anthony Cioppa,  Silvio Giancola,  Bernard Ghanem,  Marc Van Droogenbroeck
备注:  19 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables, 1 page of supplementary material
Abstract:Self-supervised pre-training of image encoders is omnipresent in the literature, particularly following the introduction of Masked autoencoders (MAE). Current efforts attempt to learn object-centric representations from motion in videos. In particular, SiamMAE recently introduced a Siamese network, training a shared-weight encoder from two frames of a video with a high asymmetric masking ratio (95%). In this work, we propose CropMAE, an alternative approach to the Siamese pre-training introduced by SiamMAE. Our method specifically differs by exclusively considering pairs of cropped images sourced from the same image but cropped differently, deviating from the conventional pairs of frames extracted from a video. CropMAE therefore alleviates the need for video datasets, while maintaining competitive performances and drastically reducing pre-training time. Furthermore, we demonstrate that CropMAE learns similar object-centric representations without explicit motion, showing that current self-supervised learning methods do not learn objects from motion, but rather thanks to the Siamese architecture. Finally, CropMAE achieves the highest masking ratio to date (98.5%), enabling the reconstruction of images using only two visible patches. Our code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [64]
标题:  DN-Splatter: Depth and Normal Priors for Gaussian Splatting and Meshing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17822
作者:  Matias Turkulainen,  Xuqian Ren,  Iaroslav Melekhov,  Otto Seiskari,  Esa Rahtu,  Juho Kannala
备注:  
Abstract:3D Gaussian splatting, a novel differentiable rendering technique, has achieved state-of-the-art novel view synthesis results with high rendering speeds and relatively low training times. However, its performance on scenes commonly seen in indoor datasets is poor due to the lack of geometric constraints during optimization. We extend 3D Gaussian splatting with depth and normal cues to tackle challenging indoor datasets and showcase techniques for efficient mesh extraction, an important downstream application. Specifically, we regularize the optimization procedure with depth information, enforce local smoothness of nearby Gaussians, and use the geometry of the 3D Gaussians supervised by normal cues to achieve better alignment with the true scene geometry. We improve depth estimation and novel view synthesis results over baselines and show how this simple yet effective regularization technique can be used to directly extract meshes from the Gaussian representation yielding more physically accurate reconstructions on indoor scenes. Our code will be released in this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [65]
标题:  Accelerating Radio Spectrum Regulation Workflows with Large Language  Models (LLMs)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17819
作者:  Amir Ghasemi,  Paul Guinand
备注:  
Abstract:Wireless spectrum regulation is a complex and demanding process due to the rapid pace of technological progress, increasing demand for spectrum, and a multitude of stakeholders with potentially conflicting interests, alongside significant economic implications. To navigate this, regulators must engage effectively with all parties, keep pace with global technology trends, conduct technical evaluations, issue licenses in a timely manner, and comply with various legal and policy frameworks. In light of these challenges, this paper demonstrates example applications of Large Language Models (LLMs) to expedite spectrum regulatory processes. We explore various roles that LLMs can play in this context while identifying some of the challenges to address. The paper also offers practical case studies and insights, with appropriate experiments, highlighting the transformative potential of LLMs in spectrum management.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [66]
标题:  CSSTs: A Dynamic Data Structure for Partial Orders in Concurrent  Execution Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17818
作者:  Hünkar Can Tunç,  Ameya Prashant Deshmukh,  Berk Çirisci,  Constantin Enea,  Andreas Pavlogiannis
备注:  
Abstract:Dynamic analyses are a standard approach to analyzing and testing concurrent programs. Such techniques observe program traces and analyze them to infer the presence or absence of bugs. At its core, each analysis maintains a partial order $P$ that represents order dependencies between events of the analyzed trace $\sigma$. Naturally, the scalability of the analysis largely depends on how efficiently it maintains $P$. The standard data structure for this task has thus far been vector clocks. These, however, are slow for analyses that follow a non-streaming style, costing $O(n)$ for inserting (and propagating) each new ordering in $P$, where $n$ is the size of $\sigma$, while they cannot handle the deletion of existing orderings. In this paper we develop collective sparse segment trees (CSSTs), a simple but elegant data structure for generically maintaining a partial order $P$. CSSTs thrive when the width $k$ of $P$ is much smaller than the size $n$ of its domain, allowing inserting, deleting, and querying for orderings in $P$ to run in $O(logn)$ time. For a concurrent trace, $k$ is bounded by the number of its threads, and is normally orders of magnitude smaller than its size $n$, making CSSTs fitting for this setting. Our experimental results confirm that CSSTs are the best data structure currently to handle a range of dynamic analyses from existing literature.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [67]
标题:  Graph Language Model (GLM): A new graph-based approach to detect social  instabilities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17816
作者:  Wallyson Lemes de Oliveira,  Vahid Shamsaddini,  Ali Ghofrani,  Rahul Singh Inda,  Jithendra Sai Veeramaneni,  Étienne Voutaz
备注:  
Abstract:This scientific report presents a novel methodology for the early prediction of important political events using News datasets. The methodology leverages natural language processing, graph theory, clique analysis, and semantic relationships to uncover hidden predictive signals within the data. Initially, we designed a preliminary version of the method and tested it on a few events. This analysis revealed limitations in the initial research phase. We then enhanced the model in two key ways: first, we added a filtration step to only consider politically relevant news before further processing; second, we adjusted the input features to make the alert system more sensitive to significant spikes in the data. After finalizing the improved methodology, we tested it on eleven events including US protests, the Ukraine war, and French protests. Results demonstrate the superiority of our approach compared to baseline methods. Through targeted refinements, our model can now provide earlier and more accurate predictions of major political events based on subtle patterns in news data.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [68]
标题:  D-PAD: Deep-Shallow Multi-Frequency Patterns Disentangling for Time  Series Forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17814
作者:  Xiaobing Yuan,  Ling Chen
备注:  
Abstract:In time series forecasting, effectively disentangling intricate temporal patterns is crucial. While recent works endeavor to combine decomposition techniques with deep learning, multiple frequencies may still be mixed in the decomposed components, e.g., trend and seasonal. Furthermore, frequency domain analysis methods, e.g., Fourier and wavelet transforms, have limitations in resolution in the time domain and adaptability. In this paper, we propose D-PAD, a deep-shallow multi-frequency patterns disentangling neural network for time series forecasting. Specifically, a multi-component decomposing (MCD) block is introduced to decompose the series into components with different frequency ranges, corresponding to the "shallow" aspect. A decomposition-reconstruction-decomposition (D-R-D) module is proposed to progressively extract the information of frequencies mixed in the components, corresponding to the "deep" aspect. After that, an interaction and fusion (IF) module is used to further analyze the components. Extensive experiments on seven real-world datasets demonstrate that D-PAD achieves the state-of-the-art performance, outperforming the best baseline by an average of 9.48% and 7.15% in MSE and MAE, respectively.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [69]
标题:  Are Compressed Language Models Less Subgroup Robust?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17811
作者:  Leonidas Gee,  Andrea Zugarini,  Novi Quadrianto
备注:  The 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 2023)
Abstract:To reduce the inference cost of large language models, model compression is increasingly used to create smaller scalable models. However, little is known about their robustness to minority subgroups defined by the labels and attributes of a dataset. In this paper, we investigate the effects of 18 different compression methods and settings on the subgroup robustness of BERT language models. We show that worst-group performance does not depend on model size alone, but also on the compression method used. Additionally, we find that model compression does not always worsen the performance on minority subgroups. Altogether, our analysis serves to further research into the subgroup robustness of model compression.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [70]
标题:  Towards Inclusive Video Commenting: Introducing Signmaku for the Deaf  and Hard-of-Hearing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17807
作者:  Si Chen,  Haocong Cheng,  Jason Situ,  Desirée Kirst,  Suzy Su,  Saumya Malhotra,  Lawrence Angrave,  Qi Wang,  Yun Huang
备注:  14 pages, CHI 2024
Abstract:Previous research underscored the potential of danmaku--a text-based commenting feature on videos--in engaging hearing audiences. Yet, for many Deaf and hard-of-hearing (DHH) individuals, American Sign Language (ASL) takes precedence over English. To improve inclusivity, we introduce "Signmaku," a new commenting mechanism that uses ASL, serving as a sign language counterpart to danmaku. Through a need-finding study (N=12) and a within-subject experiment (N=20), we evaluated three design styles: real human faces, cartoon-like figures, and robotic representations. The results showed that cartoon-like signmaku not only entertained but also encouraged participants to create and share ASL comments, with fewer privacy concerns compared to the other designs. Conversely, the robotic representations faced challenges in accurately depicting hand movements and facial expressions, resulting in higher cognitive demands on users. Signmaku featuring real human faces elicited the lowest cognitive load and was the most comprehensible among all three types. Our findings offered novel design implications for leveraging generative AI to create signmaku comments, enriching co-learning experiences for DHH individuals.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [71]
标题:  Have Faith in Faithfulness: Going Beyond Circuit Overlap When Finding  Model Mechanisms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17806
作者:  Michael Hanna,  Sandro Pezzelle,  Yonatan Belinkov
备注:  
Abstract:Many recent language model (LM) interpretability studies have adopted the circuits framework, which aims to find the minimal computational subgraph, or circuit, that explains LM behavior on a given task. Most studies determine which edges belong in a LM's circuit by performing causal interventions on each edge independently, but this scales poorly with model size. Edge attribution patching (EAP), gradient-based approximation to interventions, has emerged as a scalable but imperfect solution to this problem. In this paper, we introduce a new method - EAP with integrated gradients (EAP-IG) - that aims to better maintain a core property of circuits: faithfulness. A circuit is faithful if all model edges outside the circuit can be ablated without changing the model's performance on the task; faithfulness is what justifies studying circuits, rather than the full model. Our experiments demonstrate that circuits found using EAP are less faithful than those found using EAP-IG, even though both have high node overlap with circuits found previously using causal interventions. We conclude more generally that when using circuits to compare the mechanisms models use to solve tasks, faithfulness, not overlap, is what should be measured.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [72]
标题:  Scenario-Based Curriculum Generation for Multi-Agent Autonomous Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17805
作者:  Axel Brunnbauer,  Luigi Berducci,  Peter Priller,  Dejan Nickovic,  Radu Grosu
备注:  7 Pages, Under Review
Abstract:The automated generation of diverse and complex training scenarios has been an important ingredient in many complex learning tasks. Especially in real-world application domains, such as autonomous driving, auto-curriculum generation is considered vital for obtaining robust and general policies. However, crafting traffic scenarios with multiple, heterogeneous agents is typically considered as a tedious and time-consuming task, especially in more complex simulation environments. In our work, we introduce MATS-Gym, a Multi-Agent Traffic Scenario framework to train agents in CARLA, a high-fidelity driving simulator. MATS-Gym is a multi-agent training framework for autonomous driving that uses partial scenario specifications to generate traffic scenarios with variable numbers of agents. This paper unifies various existing approaches to traffic scenario description into a single training framework and demonstrates how it can be integrated with techniques from unsupervised environment design to automate the generation of adaptive auto-curricula. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [73]
标题:  Improving Text-to-Image Consistency via Automatic Prompt Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17804
作者:  Oscar Mañas,  Pietro Astolfi,  Melissa Hall,  Candace Ross,  Jack Urbanek,  Adina Williams,  Aishwarya Agrawal,  Adriana Romero-Soriano,  Michal Drozdzal
备注:  
Abstract:Impressive advances in text-to-image (T2I) generative models have yielded a plethora of high performing models which are able to generate aesthetically appealing, photorealistic images. Despite the progress, these models still struggle to produce images that are consistent with the input prompt, oftentimes failing to capture object quantities, relations and attributes properly. Existing solutions to improve prompt-image consistency suffer from the following challenges: (1) they oftentimes require model fine-tuning, (2) they only focus on nearby prompt samples, and (3) they are affected by unfavorable trade-offs among image quality, representation diversity, and prompt-image consistency. In this paper, we address these challenges and introduce a T2I optimization-by-prompting framework, OPT2I, which leverages a large language model (LLM) to improve prompt-image consistency in T2I models. Our framework starts from a user prompt and iteratively generates revised prompts with the goal of maximizing a consistency score. Our extensive validation on two datasets, MSCOCO and PartiPrompts, shows that OPT2I can boost the initial consistency score by up to 24.9% in terms of DSG score while preserving the FID and increasing the recall between generated and real data. Our work paves the way toward building more reliable and robust T2I systems by harnessing the power of LLMs.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [74]
标题:  Towards 3D Vision with Low-Cost Single-Photon Cameras
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17801
作者:  Fangzhou Mu,  Carter Sifferman,  Sacha Jungerman,  Yiquan Li,  Mark Han,  Michael Gleicher,  Mohit Gupta,  Yin Li
备注:  
Abstract:We present a method for reconstructing 3D shape of arbitrary Lambertian objects based on measurements by miniature, energy-efficient, low-cost single-photon cameras. These cameras, operating as time resolved image sensors, illuminate the scene with a very fast pulse of diffuse light and record the shape of that pulse as it returns back from the scene at a high temporal resolution. We propose to model this image formation process, account for its non-idealities, and adapt neural rendering to reconstruct 3D geometry from a set of spatially distributed sensors with known poses. We show that our approach can successfully recover complex 3D shapes from simulated data. We further demonstrate 3D object reconstruction from real-world captures, utilizing measurements from a commodity proximity sensor. Our work draws a connection between image-based modeling and active range scanning and is a step towards 3D vision with single-photon cameras.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [75]
标题:  Steering Feedback in Dynamic Driving Simulators: The Influence of  Steering Wheel Vibration and Vehicle Motion Frequency
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17800
作者:  Maximilian Böhle,  Bernhard Schick,  Steffen Müller
备注:  12 pages, 7 figures, 9 tables, submitted to the IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles
Abstract:The validity of the subjective evaluation of steering feedback in driving simulators is crucial for modern vehicle development. Although there are established objective steering characteristics for the assessment of both stationary and dynamic feedback behaviour, factors such as steering wheel vibrations and vehicle body motion, particularly in high-frequency ranges, present challenges in simulator fidelity. This work investigates the influence of steering wheel vibration and vehicle body motion frequency content on the subjective evaluation of steering feedback during closed-loop driving in a dynamic driving simulator. A controlled subject study with 30 participants consisting of a back-to-back comparison of a reference vehicle with an electrical power steering system and three variants of its virtual representation on a dynamic driving simulator was performed. Subjective evaluation focused on the representation of road feedback in comparison to the reference vehicle. The statistical analysis of subjective results show that there is a significant influence of the frequency content of both steering wheel torque and vehicle motion on the subjective evaluation of steering feedback in a dynamic driving simulator. The results suggest an influence of frequency content on the subjective evaluation quality of steering feedback characteristics that are not associated with the dynamic feedback behaviour in the context of established performance indicators.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [76]
标题:  Neural Exponential Stabilization of Control-affine Nonlinear Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17793
作者:  Muhammad Zakwan,  Liang Xu,  Giancarlo Ferrari-Trecate
备注:  This paper is submitted in CDC2024 for a possible publication
Abstract:This paper proposes a novel learning-based approach for achieving exponential stabilization of nonlinear control-affine systems. We leverage the Control Contraction Metrics (CCMs) framework to co-synthesize Neural Contraction Metrics (NCMs) and Neural Network (NN) controllers. First, we transform the infinite-dimensional semi-definite program (SDP) for CCM computation into a tractable inequality feasibility problem using element-wise bounds of matrix-valued functions. The terms in the inequality can be efficiently computed by our novel algorithms. Second, we propose a free parametrization of NCMs guaranteeing positive definiteness and the satisfaction of a partial differential equation, regardless of trainable parameters. Third, this parametrization and the inequality condition enable the design of contractivity-enforcing regularizers, which can be incorporated while designing the NN controller for exponential stabilization of the underlying nonlinear systems. Furthermore, when the training loss goes to zero, we provide formal guarantees on verification of the NCM and the exponentional stabilization under the NN controller. Finally, we validate our method through benchmark experiments on set-point stabilization and increasing the region of attraction of a locally pre-stabilized closed-loop system.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [77]
标题:  A Novel Temperature-based Model for SWIPT
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17792
作者:  Elio Faddoul,  Yuan Guo,  Christodoulos Skouroumounis,  Ioannis Krikidis
备注:  This work has been accepted for publication in IEEE Wireless Communications Letters
Abstract:In this letter, a novel communication paradigm for simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) is proposed, which leverages the thermal characteristics of electromagnetic signals. In particular, the proposed scheme exploits the inherent thermal dynamics of electromagnetic signals, enabling the seamless integration of information decoding and energy harvesting (EH). As a consequence, in contrast to conventional SWIPT techniques, the proposed model eliminates the need to divide the received signal into orthogonal components. By exploiting the thermal correlation between consecutive time slots, the communication channel is converted to a virtual multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) channel with memory. We evaluate the achievable rate of the proposed temperature-modulated channel for uniform and exponential input distributions and assess its performance in terms of harvested energy through a non-linear harvesting model. Our numerical results reveal that the exponential distribution outperforms the uniform distribution in rate and harvested energy at low input power levels, while the uniform distribution achieves a better EH performance at high input power levels.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [78]
标题:  A PAC-Bayesian Framework for Optimal Control with Stability Guarantees
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17790
作者:  Mahrokh Ghoddousi Boroujeni,  Clara Lucía Galimberti,  Andreas Krause,  Giancarlo Ferrari-Trecate
备注:  
Abstract:Stochastic Nonlinear Optimal Control (SNOC) involves minimizing a cost function that averages out the random uncertainties affecting the dynamics of nonlinear systems. For tractability reasons, this problem is typically addressed by minimizing an empirical cost, which represents the average cost across a finite dataset of sampled disturbances. However, this approach raises the challenge of quantifying the control performance against out-of-sample uncertainties. Particularly, in scenarios where the training dataset is small, SNOC policies are prone to overfitting, resulting in significant discrepancies between the empirical cost and the true cost, i.e., the average SNOC cost incurred during control deployment. Therefore, establishing generalization bounds on the true cost is crucial for ensuring reliability in real-world applications. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach that leverages PAC-Bayes theory to provide rigorous generalization bounds for SNOC. Based on these bounds, we propose a new method for designing optimal controllers, offering a principled way to incorporate prior knowledge into the synthesis process, which aids in improving the control policy and mitigating overfitting. Furthermore, by leveraging recent parametrizations of stabilizing controllers for nonlinear systems, our framework inherently ensures closed-loop stability. The effectiveness of our proposed method in incorporating prior knowledge and combating overfitting is shown by designing neural network controllers for tasks in cooperative robotics.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [79]
标题:  System Calibration of a Field Phenotyping Robot with Multiple  High-Precision Profile Laser Scanners
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17788
作者:  Felix Esser,  Gereon Tombrink,  Andre Cornelißen,  Lasse Klingbeil,  Heiner Kuhlmann
备注:  
Abstract:The creation of precise and high-resolution crop point clouds in agricultural fields has become a key challenge for high-throughput phenotyping applications. This work implements a novel calibration method to calibrate the laser scanning system of an agricultural field robot consisting of two industrial-grade laser scanners used for high-precise 3D crop point cloud creation. The calibration method optimizes the transformation between the scanner origins and the robot pose by minimizing 3D point omnivariances within the point cloud. Moreover, we present a novel factor graph-based pose estimation method that fuses total station prism measurements with IMU and GNSS heading information for high-precise pose determination during calibration. The root-mean-square error of the distances to a georeferenced ground truth point cloud results in 0.8 cm after parameter optimization. Furthermore, our results show the importance of a reference point cloud in the calibration method needed to estimate the vertical translation of the calibration. Challenges arise due to non-static parameters while the robot moves, indicated by systematic deviations to a ground truth terrestrial laser scan.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [80]
标题:  Evaluating the Efficacy of Prompt-Engineered Large Multimodal Models  Versus Fine-Tuned Vision Transformers in Image-Based Security Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17787
作者:  Fouad Trad,  Ali Chehab
备注:  
Abstract:The success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to a parallel rise in the development of Large Multimodal Models (LMMs), such as Gemini-pro, which have begun to transform a variety of applications. These sophisticated multimodal models are designed to interpret and analyze complex data, integrating both textual and visual information on a scale previously unattainable, opening new avenues for a range of applications. This paper investigates the applicability and effectiveness of prompt-engineered Gemini-pro LMMs versus fine-tuned Vision Transformer (ViT) models in addressing critical security challenges. We focus on two distinct tasks: a visually evident task of detecting simple triggers, such as small squares in images, indicative of potential backdoors, and a non-visually evident task of malware classification through visual representations. Our results highlight a significant divergence in performance, with Gemini-pro falling short in accuracy and reliability when compared to fine-tuned ViT models. The ViT models, on the other hand, demonstrate exceptional accuracy, achieving near-perfect performance on both tasks. This study not only showcases the strengths and limitations of prompt-engineered LMMs in cybersecurity applications but also emphasizes the unmatched efficacy of fine-tuned ViT models for precise and dependable tasks.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [81]
标题:  Query Refinement for Diverse Top-$k$ Selection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17786
作者:  Felix S. Campbell,  Alon Silberstein,  Yuval Moskovitch,  Julia Stoyanovich
备注:  
Abstract:Database queries are often used to select and rank items as decision support for many applications. As automated decision-making tools become more prevalent, there is a growing recognition of the need to diversify their outcomes. In this paper, we define and study the problem of modifying the selection conditions of an ORDER BY query so that the result of the modified query closely fits some user-defined notion of diversity while simultaneously maintaining the intent of the original query. We show the hardness of this problem and propose a Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP) based solution. We further present optimizations designed to enhance the scalability and applicability of the solution in real-life scenarios. We investigate the performance characteristics of our algorithm and show its efficiency and the usefulness of our optimizations.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [82]
标题:  Neural Distributed Controllers with Port-Hamiltonian Structures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17785
作者:  Muhammad Zakwan,  Giancarlo Ferrari-Trecate
备注:  This paper is submitted in CDC2024 for a possible publication
Abstract:Controlling large-scale cyber-physical systems necessitates optimal distributed policies, relying solely on local real-time data and limited communication with neighboring agents. However, finding optimal controllers remains challenging, even in seemingly simple scenarios. Parameterizing these policies using Neural Networks (NNs) can deliver good performance, but their sensitivity to small input changes can destabilize the closed-loop system. This paper addresses this issue for a network of nonlinear dissipative systems. Specifically, we leverage well-established port-Hamiltonian structures to characterize deep distributed control policies with closed-loop stability guarantees and a finite $\mathcal{L}_2$ gain, regardless of specific NN parameters. This eliminates the need to constrain the parameters during optimization and enables training with standard methods like stochastic gradient descent. A numerical study on the consensus control of Kuramoto oscillators demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed controllers.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [83]
标题:  SciCapenter: Supporting Caption Composition for Scientific Figures with  Machine-Generated Captions and Ratings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17784
作者:  Ting-Yao Hsu,  Chieh-Yang Huang,  Shih-Hong Huang,  Ryan Rossi,  Sungchul Kim,  Tong Yu,  C. Lee Giles,  Ting-Hao K. Huang
备注:  CHI EA '24: Extended Abstracts of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
Abstract:Crafting effective captions for figures is important. Readers heavily depend on these captions to grasp the figure's message. However, despite a well-developed set of AI technologies for figures and captions, these have rarely been tested for usefulness in aiding caption writing. This paper introduces SciCapenter, an interactive system that puts together cutting-edge AI technologies for scientific figure captions to aid caption composition. SciCapenter generates a variety of captions for each figure in a scholarly article, providing scores and a comprehensive checklist to assess caption quality across multiple critical aspects, such as helpfulness, OCR mention, key takeaways, and visual properties reference. Users can directly edit captions in SciCapenter, resubmit for revised evaluations, and iteratively refine them. A user study with Ph.D. students indicates that SciCapenter significantly lowers the cognitive load of caption writing. Participants' feedback further offers valuable design insights for future systems aiming to enhance caption writing.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [84]
标题:  GenesisTex: Adapting Image Denoising Diffusion to Texture Space
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17782
作者:  Chenjian Gao,  Boyan Jiang,  Xinghui Li,  Yingpeng Zhang,  Qian Yu
备注:  12 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:We present GenesisTex, a novel method for synthesizing textures for 3D geometries from text descriptions. GenesisTex adapts the pretrained image diffusion model to texture space by texture space sampling. Specifically, we maintain a latent texture map for each viewpoint, which is updated with predicted noise on the rendering of the corresponding viewpoint. The sampled latent texture maps are then decoded into a final texture map. During the sampling process, we focus on both global and local consistency across multiple viewpoints: global consistency is achieved through the integration of style consistency mechanisms within the noise prediction network, and low-level consistency is achieved by dynamically aligning latent textures. Finally, we apply reference-based inpainting and img2img on denser views for texture refinement. Our approach overcomes the limitations of slow optimization in distillation-based methods and instability in inpainting-based methods. Experiments on meshes from various sources demonstrate that our method surpasses the baseline methods quantitatively and qualitatively.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [85]
标题:  CaseLink: Inductive Graph Learning for Legal Case Retrieval
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17780
作者:  Yanran Tang,  Ruihong Qiu,  Hongzhi Yin,  Xue Li,  Zi Huang
备注:  
Abstract:In case law, the precedents are the relevant cases that are used to support the decisions made by the judges and the opinions of lawyers towards a given case. This relevance is referred to as the case-to-case reference relation. To efficiently find relevant cases from a large case pool, retrieval tools are widely used by legal practitioners. Existing legal case retrieval models mainly work by comparing the text representations of individual cases. Although they obtain a decent retrieval accuracy, the intrinsic case connectivity relationships among cases have not been well exploited for case encoding, therefore limiting the further improvement of retrieval performance. In a case pool, there are three types of case connectivity relationships: the case reference relationship, the case semantic relationship, and the case legal charge relationship. Due to the inductive manner in the task of legal case retrieval, using case reference as input is not applicable for testing. Thus, in this paper, a CaseLink model based on inductive graph learning is proposed to utilise the intrinsic case connectivity for legal case retrieval, a novel Global Case Graph is incorporated to represent both the case semantic relationship and the case legal charge relationship. A novel contrastive objective with a regularisation on the degree of case nodes is proposed to leverage the information carried by the case reference relationship to optimise the model. Extensive experiments have been conducted on two benchmark datasets, which demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of CaseLink. The code has been released on this https URL.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [86]
标题:  Optical Flow Based Detection and Tracking of Moving Objects for  Autonomous Vehicles
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17779
作者:  MReza Alipour Sormoli,  Mehrdad Dianati,  Sajjad Mozaffari,  Roger woodman
备注:  This manuscript has been accepted as a regular paper in Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (DOI: 10.1109/TITS.2024.3382495)
Abstract:Accurate velocity estimation of surrounding moving objects and their trajectories are critical elements of perception systems in Automated/Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) with a direct impact on their safety. These are non-trivial problems due to the diverse types and sizes of such objects and their dynamic and random behaviour. Recent point cloud based solutions often use Iterative Closest Point (ICP) techniques, which are known to have certain limitations. For example, their computational costs are high due to their iterative nature, and their estimation error often deteriorates as the relative velocities of the target objects increase (>2 m/sec). Motivated by such shortcomings, this paper first proposes a novel Detection and Tracking of Moving Objects (DATMO) for AVs based on an optical flow technique, which is proven to be computationally efficient and highly accurate for such problems. \textcolor{black}{This is achieved by representing the driving scenario as a vector field and applying vector calculus theories to ensure spatiotemporal continuity.} We also report the results of a comprehensive performance evaluation of the proposed DATMO technique, carried out in this study using synthetic and real-world data. The results of this study demonstrate the superiority of the proposed technique, compared to the DATMO techniques in the literature, in terms of estimation accuracy and processing time in a wide range of relative velocities of moving objects. Finally, we evaluate and discuss the sensitivity of the estimation error of the proposed DATMO technique to various system and environmental parameters, as well as the relative velocities of the moving objects.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [87]
标题:  Towards a FAIR Documentation of Workflows and Models in Applied  Mathematics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17778
作者:  Marco Reidelbach,  Björn Schembera,  Marcus Weber
备注:  
Abstract:Modeling-Simulation-Optimization workflows play a fundamental role in applied mathematics. The Mathematical Research Data Initiative, MaRDI, responded to this by developing a FAIR and machine-interpretable template for a comprehensive documentation of such workflows. MaRDMO, a Plugin for the Research Data Management Organiser, enables scientists from diverse fields to document and publish their workflows on the MaRDI Portal seamlessly using the MaRDI template. Central to these workflows are mathematical models. MaRDI addresses them with the MathModDB ontology, offering a structured formal model description. Here, we showcase the interaction between MaRDMO and the MathModDB Knowledge Graph through an algebraic modeling workflow from the Digital Humanities. This demonstration underscores the versatility of both services beyond their original numerical domain.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Databases (cs.DB); Digital Libraries (cs.DL)

**编号**: [88]
标题:  Exploring the Boundaries of Ambient Awareness in Twitter
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17776
作者:  Pablo Sanchez-Martin,  Sonja Utz,  Isabel Valera
备注:  
Abstract:Ambient awareness refers to the ability of social media users to obtain knowledge about who knows what (i.e., users' expertise) in their network, by simply being exposed to other users' content (e.g, tweets on Twitter). Previous work, based on user surveys, reveals that individuals self-report ambient awareness only for parts of their networks. However, it is unclear whether it is their limited cognitive capacity or the limited exposure to diagnostic tweets (i.e., online content) that prevents people from developing ambient awareness for their complete network. In this work, we focus on in-wall ambient awareness (IWAA) in Twitter and conduct a two-step data-driven analysis, that allows us to explore to which extent IWAA is likely, or even possible. First, we rely on reactions (e.g., likes), as strong evidence of users being aware of experts in Twitter. Unfortunately, such strong evidence can be only measured for active users, which represent the minority in the network. Thus to study the boundaries of IWAA to a larger extent, in the second part of our analysis, we instead focus on the passive exposure to content generated by other users -- which we refer to as in-wall visibility. This analysis shows that (in line with \citet{levordashka2016ambient}) only for a subset of users IWAA is plausible, while for the majority it is unlikely, if even possible, to develop IWAA. We hope that our methodology paves the way for the emergence of data-driven approaches for the study of ambient awareness.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [89]
标题:  Secure Aggregation is Not Private Against Membership Inference Attacks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17775
作者:  Khac-Hoang Ngo,  Johan Östman,  Giuseppe Durisi,  Alexandre Graell i Amat
备注:  
Abstract:Secure aggregation (SecAgg) is a commonly-used privacy-enhancing mechanism in federated learning, affording the server access only to the aggregate of model updates while safeguarding the confidentiality of individual updates. Despite widespread claims regarding SecAgg's privacy-preserving capabilities, a formal analysis of its privacy is lacking, making such presumptions unjustified. In this paper, we delve into the privacy implications of SecAgg by treating it as a local differential privacy (LDP) mechanism for each local update. We design a simple attack wherein an adversarial server seeks to discern which update vector a client submitted, out of two possible ones, in a single training round of federated learning under SecAgg. By conducting privacy auditing, we assess the success probability of this attack and quantify the LDP guarantees provided by SecAgg. Our numerical results unveil that, contrary to prevailing claims, SecAgg offers weak privacy against membership inference attacks even in a single training round. Indeed, it is difficult to hide a local update by adding other independent local updates when the updates are of high dimension. Our findings underscore the imperative for additional privacy-enhancing mechanisms, such as noise injection, in federated learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [90]
标题:  LiDAR-Based Crop Row Detection Algorithm for Over-Canopy Autonomous  Navigation in Agriculture Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17774
作者:  Ruiji Liu,  Francisco Yandun,  George Kantor
备注:  7 pages, 9 figures, submitted to IROS 2024
Abstract:Autonomous navigation is crucial for various robotics applications in agriculture. However, many existing methods depend on RTK-GPS systems, which are expensive and susceptible to poor signal coverage. This paper introduces a state-of-the-art LiDAR-based navigation system that can achieve over-canopy autonomous navigation in row-crop fields, even when the canopy fully blocks the interrow spacing. Our crop row detection algorithm can detect crop rows across diverse scenarios, encompassing various crop types, growth stages, weed presence, and discontinuities within the crop rows. Without utilizing the global localization of the robot, our navigation system can perform autonomous navigation in these challenging scenarios, detect the end of the crop rows, and navigate to the next crop row autonomously, providing a crop-agnostic approach to navigate the whole row-crop field. This navigation system has undergone tests in various simulated agricultural fields, achieving an average of $2.98cm$ autonomous driving accuracy without human intervention on the custom Amiga robot. In addition, the qualitative results of our crop row detection algorithm from the actual soybean fields validate our LiDAR-based crop row detection algorithm's potential for practical agricultural applications.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [91]
标题:  SciNews: From Scholarly Complexities to Public Narratives -- A Dataset  for Scientific News Report Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17768
作者:  Dongqi Pu,  Yifan Wang,  Jia Loy,  Vera Demberg
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024 Main Conference Paper
Abstract:Scientific news reports serve as a bridge, adeptly translating complex research articles into reports that resonate with the broader public. The automated generation of such narratives enhances the accessibility of scholarly insights. In this paper, we present a new corpus to facilitate this paradigm development. Our corpus comprises a parallel compilation of academic publications and their corresponding scientific news reports across nine disciplines. To demonstrate the utility and reliability of our dataset, we conduct an extensive analysis, highlighting the divergences in readability and brevity between scientific news narratives and academic manuscripts. We benchmark our dataset employing state-of-the-art text generation models. The evaluation process involves both automatic and human evaluation, which lays the groundwork for future explorations into the automated generation of scientific news reports. The dataset and code related to this work are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [92]
标题:  MUTE-SLAM: Real-Time Neural SLAM with Multiple Tri-Plane Hash  Representations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17765
作者:  Yifan Yan,  Ruomin He,  Zhenghua Liu
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce MUTE-SLAM, a real-time neural RGB-D SLAM system employing multiple tri-plane hash-encodings for efficient scene representation. MUTE-SLAM effectively tracks camera positions and incrementally builds a scalable multi-map representation for both small and large indoor environments. It dynamically allocates sub-maps for newly observed local regions, enabling constraint-free mapping without prior scene information. Unlike traditional grid-based methods, we use three orthogonal axis-aligned planes for hash-encoding scene properties, significantly reducing hash collisions and the number of trainable parameters. This hybrid approach not only speeds up convergence but also enhances the fidelity of surface reconstruction. Furthermore, our optimization strategy concurrently optimizes all sub-maps intersecting with the current camera frustum, ensuring global consistency. Extensive testing on both real-world and synthetic datasets has shown that MUTE-SLAM delivers state-of-the-art surface reconstruction quality and competitive tracking performance across diverse indoor settings. The code will be made public upon acceptance of the paper.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [93]
标题:  Makeup Prior Models for 3D Facial Makeup Estimation and Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17761
作者:  Xingchao Yang,  Takafumi Taketomi,  Yuki Endo,  Yoshihiro Kanamori
备注:  CVPR2024. Project: this https URL
Abstract:In this work, we introduce two types of makeup prior models to extend existing 3D face prior models: PCA-based and StyleGAN2-based priors. The PCA-based prior model is a linear model that is easy to construct and is computationally efficient. However, it retains only low-frequency information. Conversely, the StyleGAN2-based model can represent high-frequency information with relatively higher computational cost than the PCA-based model. Although there is a trade-off between the two models, both are applicable to 3D facial makeup estimation and related applications. By leveraging makeup prior models and designing a makeup consistency module, we effectively address the challenges that previous methods faced in robustly estimating makeup, particularly in the context of handling self-occluded faces. In experiments, we demonstrate that our approach reduces computational costs by several orders of magnitude, achieving speeds up to 180 times faster. In addition, by improving the accuracy of the estimated makeup, we confirm that our methods are highly advantageous for various 3D facial makeup applications such as 3D makeup face reconstruction, user-friendly makeup editing, makeup transfer, and interpolation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [94]
标题:  Constructions Are So Difficult That Even Large Language Models Get Them  Right for the Wrong Reasons
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17760
作者:  Shijia Zhou,  Leonie Weissweiler,  Taiqi He,  Hinrich Schütze,  David R. Mortensen,  Lori Levin
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:In this paper, we make a contribution that can be understood from two perspectives: from an NLP perspective, we introduce a small challenge dataset for NLI with large lexical overlap, which minimises the possibility of models discerning entailment solely based on token distinctions, and show that GPT-4 and Llama 2 fail it with strong bias. We then create further challenging sub-tasks in an effort to explain this failure. From a Computational Linguistics perspective, we identify a group of constructions with three classes of adjectives which cannot be distinguished by surface features. This enables us to probe for LLM's understanding of these constructions in various ways, and we find that they fail in a variety of ways to distinguish between them, suggesting that they don't adequately represent their meaning or capture the lexical properties of phrasal heads.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [95]
标题:  TWOLAR: a TWO-step LLM-Augmented distillation method for passage  Reranking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17759
作者:  Davide Baldelli,  Junfeng Jiang,  Akiko Aizawa,  Paolo Torroni
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present TWOLAR: a two-stage pipeline for passage reranking based on the distillation of knowledge from Large Language Models (LLM). TWOLAR introduces a new scoring strategy and a distillation process consisting in the creation of a novel and diverse training dataset. The dataset consists of 20K queries, each associated with a set of documents retrieved via four distinct retrieval methods to ensure diversity, and then reranked by exploiting the zero-shot reranking capabilities of an LLM. Our ablation studies demonstrate the contribution of each new component we introduced. Our experimental results show that TWOLAR significantly enhances the document reranking ability of the underlying model, matching and in some cases even outperforming state-of-the-art models with three orders of magnitude more parameters on the TREC-DL test sets and the zero-shot evaluation benchmark BEIR. To facilitate future work we release our data set, finetuned models, and code.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [96]
标题:  Noise2Noise Denoising of CRISM Hyperspectral Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17757
作者:  Robert Platt,  Rossella Arcucci,  Cédric M. John
备注:  5 pages, 3 figures. Accepted as a conference paper at the ICLR 2024 ML4RS Workshop
Abstract:Hyperspectral data acquired by the Compact Reconnaissance Imaging Spectrometer for Mars (CRISM) have allowed for unparalleled mapping of the surface mineralogy of Mars. Due to sensor degradation over time, a significant portion of the recently acquired data is considered unusable. Here a new data-driven model architecture, Noise2Noise4Mars (N2N4M), is introduced to remove noise from CRISM images. Our model is self-supervised and does not require zero-noise target data, making it well suited for use in Planetary Science applications where high quality labelled data is scarce. We demonstrate its strong performance on synthetic-noise data and CRISM images, and its impact on downstream classification performance, outperforming benchmark methods on most metrics. This allows for detailed analysis for critical sites of interest on the Martian surface, including proposed lander sites.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [97]
标题:  DataCook: Crafting Anti-Adversarial Examples for Healthcare Data  Copyright Protection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17755
作者:  Sihan Shang,  Jiancheng Yang,  Zhenglong Sun,  Pascal Fua
备注:  
Abstract:In the realm of healthcare, the challenges of copyright protection and unauthorized third-party misuse are increasingly significant. Traditional methods for data copyright protection are applied prior to data distribution, implying that models trained on these data become uncontrollable. This paper introduces a novel approach, named DataCook, designed to safeguard the copyright of healthcare data during the deployment phase. DataCook operates by "cooking" the raw data before distribution, enabling the development of models that perform normally on this processed data. However, during the deployment phase, the original test data must be also "cooked" through DataCook to ensure normal model performance. This process grants copyright holders control over authorization during the deployment phase. The mechanism behind DataCook is by crafting anti-adversarial examples (AntiAdv), which are designed to enhance model confidence, as opposed to standard adversarial examples (Adv) that aim to confuse models. Similar to Adv, AntiAdv introduces imperceptible perturbations, ensuring that the data processed by DataCook remains easily understandable. We conducted extensive experiments on MedMNIST datasets, encompassing both 2D/3D data and the high-resolution variants. The outcomes indicate that DataCook effectively meets its objectives, preventing models trained on AntiAdv from analyzing unauthorized data effectively, without compromising the validity and accuracy of the data in legitimate scenarios. Code and data are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [98]
标题:  Optimal Euclidean Tree Covers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17754
作者:  Hsien-Chih Chang,  Jonathan Conroy,  Hung Le,  Lazar Milenkovic,  Shay Solomon,  Cuong Than
备注:  
Abstract:A $(1+\varepsilon)\textit{-stretch tree cover}$ of a metric space is a collection of trees, where every pair of points has a $(1+\varepsilon)$-stretch path in one of the trees. The celebrated $\textit{Dumbbell Theorem}$ [Arya et~al. STOC'95] states that any set of $n$ points in $d$-dimensional Euclidean space admits a $(1+\varepsilon)$-stretch tree cover with $O_d(\varepsilon^{-d} \cdot \log(1/\varepsilon))$ trees, where the $O_d$ notation suppresses terms that depend solely on the dimension~$d$. The running time of their construction is $O_d(n \log n \cdot \frac{\log(1/\varepsilon)}{\varepsilon^{d}} + n \cdot \varepsilon^{-2d})$. Since the same point may occur in multiple levels of the tree, the $\textit{maximum degree}$ of a point in the tree cover may be as large as $\Omega(\log \Phi)$, where $\Phi$ is the aspect ratio of the input point set. In this work we present a $(1+\varepsilon)$-stretch tree cover with $O_d(\varepsilon^{-d+1} \cdot \log(1/\varepsilon))$ trees, which is optimal (up to the $\log(1/\varepsilon)$ factor). Moreover, the maximum degree of points in any tree is an $\textit{absolute constant}$ for any $d$. As a direct corollary, we obtain an optimal {routing scheme} in low-dimensional Euclidean spaces. We also present a $(1+\varepsilon)$-stretch $\textit{Steiner}$ tree cover (that may use Steiner points) with $O_d(\varepsilon^{(-d+1)/{2}} \cdot \log(1/\varepsilon))$ trees, which too is optimal. The running time of our two constructions is linear in the number of edges in the respective tree covers, ignoring an additive $O_d(n \log n)$ term; this improves over the running time underlying the Dumbbell Theorem.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [99]
标题:  CCDSReFormer: Traffic Flow Prediction with a Criss-Crossed Dual-Stream  Enhanced Rectified Transformer Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17753
作者:  Zhiqi Shao,  Michael G.H. Bell,  Ze Wang,  D. Glenn Geers,  Xusheng Yao,  Junbin Gao
备注:  18 pages
Abstract:Accurate, and effective traffic forecasting is vital for smart traffic systems, crucial in urban traffic planning and management. Current Spatio-Temporal Transformer models, despite their prediction capabilities, struggle with balancing computational efficiency and accuracy, favoring global over local information, and handling spatial and temporal data separately, limiting insight into complex interactions. We introduce the Criss-Crossed Dual-Stream Enhanced Rectified Transformer model (CCDSReFormer), which includes three innovative modules: Enhanced Rectified Spatial Self-attention (ReSSA), Enhanced Rectified Delay Aware Self-attention (ReDASA), and Enhanced Rectified Temporal Self-attention (ReTSA). These modules aim to lower computational needs via sparse attention, focus on local information for better traffic dynamics understanding, and merge spatial and temporal insights through a unique learning method. Extensive tests on six real-world datasets highlight CCDSReFormer's superior performance. An ablation study also confirms the significant impact of each component on the model's predictive accuracy, showcasing our model's ability to forecast traffic flow effectively.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [100]
标题:  Can multiple-choice questions really be useful in detecting the  abilities of LLMs?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17752
作者:  Wangyue Li,  Liangzhi Li,  Tong Xiang,  Xiao Liu,  Wei Deng,  Noa Garcia
备注:  
Abstract:Multiple-choice questions (MCQs) are widely used in the evaluation of large language models (LLMs) due to their simplicity and efficiency. However, there are concerns about whether MCQs can truly measure LLM's capabilities, particularly in knowledge-intensive scenarios where long-form generation (LFG) answers are required. The misalignment between the task and the evaluation method demands a thoughtful analysis of MCQ's efficacy, which we undertake in this paper by evaluating nine LLMs on four question-answering (QA) datasets in two languages: Chinese and English. We identify a significant issue: LLMs exhibit an order sensitivity in bilingual MCQs, favoring answers located at specific positions, i.e., the first position. We further quantify the gap between MCQs and long-form generation questions (LFGQs) by comparing their direct outputs, token logits, and embeddings. Our results reveal a relatively low correlation between answers from MCQs and LFGQs for identical questions. Additionally, we propose two methods to quantify the consistency and confidence of LLMs' output, which can be generalized to other QA evaluation benchmarks. Notably, our analysis challenges the idea that the higher the consistency, the greater the accuracy. We also find MCQs to be less reliable than LFGQs in terms of expected calibration error. Finally, the misalignment between MCQs and LFGQs is not only reflected in the evaluation performance but also in the embedding space. Our code and models can be accessed at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [101]
标题:  Robust Analysis of Full-Duplex Two-Way Space Shift Keying With RIS  Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17751
作者:  Xusheng Zhu,  Wen Chen,  Qingqing Wu,  Wen Fang,  Chaoying Huang,  Jun Li
备注:  
Abstract:Reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS)-assisted index modulation system schemes are considered a promising technology for sixth-generation (6G) wireless communication systems, which can enhance various system capabilities such as coverage and reliability. However, obtaining perfect channel state information (CSI) is challenging due to the lack of a radio frequency chain in RIS. In this paper, we investigate the RIS-assisted full-duplex (FD) two-way space shift keying (SSK) system under imperfect CSI, where the signal emissions are augmented by deploying RISs in the vicinity of two FD users. The maximum likelihood detector is utilized to recover the transmit antenna index. With this in mind, we derive closed-form average bit error probability (ABEP) expression based on the Gaussian-Chebyshev quadrature (GCQ) method and provide the upper bound and asymptotic ABEP expressions in the presence of channel estimation errors. To gain more insights, we also derive the outage probability and provide the throughput of the proposed scheme with imperfect CSI. The correctness of the analytical derivation results is confirmed via Monte Carlo simulations. It is demonstrated that increasing the number of elements of RIS can significantly improve the ABEP performance of the FD system over the half-duplex (HD) system. Furthermore, in the high SNR region, the ABEP performance of the FD system is better than that of the HD system.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [102]
标题:  Multi-Task Dense Prediction via Mixture of Low-Rank Experts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17749
作者:  Yuqi Yang,  Peng-Tao Jiang,  Qibin Hou,  Hao Zhang,  Jinwei Chen,  Bo Li
备注:  Accepted at CVPR 2024
Abstract:Previous multi-task dense prediction methods based on the Mixture of Experts (MoE) have received great performance but they neglect the importance of explicitly modeling the global relations among all tasks. In this paper, we present a novel decoder-focused method for multi-task dense prediction, called Mixture-of-Low-Rank-Experts (MLoRE). To model the global task relationships, MLoRE adds a generic convolution path to the original MoE structure, where each task feature can go through this path for explicit parameter sharing. Furthermore, to control the parameters and computational cost brought by the increase in the number of experts, we take inspiration from LoRA and propose to leverage the low-rank format of a vanilla convolution in the expert network. Since the low-rank experts have fewer parameters and can be dynamically parameterized into the generic convolution, the parameters and computational cost do not change much with the increase of experts. Benefiting from this design, we increase the number of experts and its reception field to enlarge the representation capacity, facilitating multiple dense tasks learning in a unified network. Extensive experiments on the PASCAL-Context and NYUD-v2 benchmarks show that our MLoRE achieves superior performance compared to previous state-of-the-art methods on all metrics. Our code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [103]
标题:  UCxn: Typologically Informed Annotation of Constructions Atop Universal  Dependencies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17748
作者:  Leonie Weissweiler,  Nina Böbel,  Kirian Guiller,  Santiago Herrera,  Wesley Scivetti,  Arthur Lorenzi,  Nurit Melnik,  Archna Bhatia,  Hinrich Schütze,  Lori Levin,  Amir Zeldes,  Joakim Nivre,  William Croft,  Nathan Schneider
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:The Universal Dependencies (UD) project has created an invaluable collection of treebanks with contributions in over 140 languages. However, the UD annotations do not tell the full story. Grammatical constructions that convey meaning through a particular combination of several morphosyntactic elements -- for example, interrogative sentences with special markers and/or word orders -- are not labeled holistically. We argue for (i) augmenting UD annotations with a 'UCxn' annotation layer for such meaning-bearing grammatical constructions, and (ii) approaching this in a typologically informed way so that morphosyntactic strategies can be compared across languages. As a case study, we consider five construction families in ten languages, identifying instances of each construction in UD treebanks through the use of morphosyntactic patterns. In addition to findings regarding these particular constructions, our study yields important insights on methodology for describing and identifying constructions in language-general and language-particular ways, and lays the foundation for future constructional enrichment of UD treebanks.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [104]
标题:  Leave No Patient Behind: Enhancing Medication Recommendation for Rare  Disease Patients
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17745
作者:  Zihao Zhao,  Yi Jing,  Fuli Feng,  Jiancan Wu,  Chongming Gao,  Xiangnan He
备注:  
Abstract:Medication recommendation systems have gained significant attention in healthcare as a means of providing tailored and effective drug combinations based on patients' clinical information. However, existing approaches often suffer from fairness issues, as recommendations tend to be more accurate for patients with common diseases compared to those with rare conditions. In this paper, we propose a novel model called Robust and Accurate REcommendations for Medication (RAREMed), which leverages the pretrain-finetune learning paradigm to enhance accuracy for rare diseases. RAREMed employs a transformer encoder with a unified input sequence approach to capture complex relationships among disease and procedure codes. Additionally, it introduces two self-supervised pre-training tasks, namely Sequence Matching Prediction (SMP) and Self Reconstruction (SR), to learn specialized medication needs and interrelations among clinical codes. Experimental results on two real-world datasets demonstrate that RAREMed provides accurate drug sets for both rare and common disease patients, thereby mitigating unfairness in medication recommendation systems.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [105]
标题:  Using Stratified Sampling to Improve LIME Image Explanations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17742
作者:  Muhammad Rashid,  Elvio G. Amparore,  Enrico Ferrari,  Damiano Verda
备注:  
Abstract:We investigate the use of a stratified sampling approach for LIME Image, a popular model-agnostic explainable AI method for computer vision tasks, in order to reduce the artifacts generated by typical Monte Carlo sampling. Such artifacts are due to the undersampling of the dependent variable in the synthetic neighborhood around the image being explained, which may result in inadequate explanations due to the impossibility of fitting a linear regressor on the sampled data. We then highlight a connection with the Shapley theory, where similar arguments about undersampling and sample relevance were suggested in the past. We derive all the formulas and adjustment factors required for an unbiased stratified sampling estimator. Experiments show the efficacy of the proposed approach.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [106]
标题:  All-in-One: Heterogeneous Interaction Modeling for Cold-Start Rating  Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17740
作者:  Shuheng Fang,  Kangfei Zhao,  Yu Rong,  Zhixun Li,  Jeffrey Xu Yu
备注:  14 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Cold-start rating prediction is a fundamental problem in recommender systems that has been extensively studied. Many methods have been proposed that exploit explicit relations among existing data, such as collaborative filtering, social recommendations and heterogeneous information network, to alleviate the data insufficiency issue for cold-start users and items. However, the explicit relations constructed based on data between different roles may be unreliable and irrelevant, which limits the performance ceiling of the specific recommendation task. Motivated by this, in this paper, we propose a flexible framework dubbed heterogeneous interaction rating network (HIRE). HIRE dose not solely rely on the pre-defined interaction pattern or the manually constructed heterogeneous information network. Instead, we devise a Heterogeneous Interaction Module (HIM) to jointly model the heterogeneous interactions and directly infer the important interactions via the observed data. In the experiments, we evaluate our model under three cold-start settings on three real-world datasets. The experimental results show that HIRE outperforms other baselines by a large margin. Furthermore, we visualize the inferred interactions of HIRE to confirm the contribution of our model.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [107]
标题:  Out-of-distribution Rumor Detection via Test-Time Adaptation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17735
作者:  Xiang Tao,  Mingqing Zhang,  Qiang Liu,  Shu Wu,  Liang Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Due to the rapid spread of rumors on social media, rumor detection has become an extremely important challenge. Existing methods for rumor detection have achieved good performance, as they have collected enough corpus from the same data distribution for model training. However, significant distribution shifts between the training data and real-world test data occur due to differences in news topics, social media platforms, languages and the variance in propagation scale caused by news popularity. This leads to a substantial decline in the performance of these existing methods in Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) situations. To address this problem, we propose a simple and efficient method named Test-time Adaptation for Rumor Detection under distribution shifts (TARD). This method models the propagation of news in the form of a propagation graph, and builds propagation graph test-time adaptation framework, enhancing the model's adaptability and robustness when facing OOD problems. Extensive experiments conducted on two group datasets collected from real-world social platforms demonstrate that our framework outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in performance.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [108]
标题:  Continual Few-shot Event Detection via Hierarchical Augmentation  Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17733
作者:  Chenlong Zhang,  Pengfei Cao,  Yubo Chen,  Kang Liu,  Zhiqiang Zhang,  Mengshu Sun,  Jun Zhao
备注:  Accepted to LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Traditional continual event detection relies on abundant labeled data for training, which is often impractical to obtain in real-world applications. In this paper, we introduce continual few-shot event detection (CFED), a more commonly encountered scenario when a substantial number of labeled samples are not accessible. The CFED task is challenging as it involves memorizing previous event types and learning new event types with few-shot samples. To mitigate these challenges, we propose a memory-based framework: Hierarchical Augmentation Networks (HANet). To memorize previous event types with limited memory, we incorporate prototypical augmentation into the memory set. For the issue of learning new event types in few-shot scenarios, we propose a contrastive augmentation module for token representations. Despite comparing with previous state-of-the-art methods, we also conduct comparisons with ChatGPT. Experiment results demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms all of these methods in multiple continual few-shot event detection tasks.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [109]
标题:  Coupled Boundary and Volume Integral Equations for Electromagnetic  Scattering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17731
作者:  Ignacio Labarca-Figueroa,  Ralf Hiptmair
备注:  
Abstract:We study frequency domain electromagnetic scattering at a bounded, penetrable, and inhomogeneous obstacle $ \Omega \subset \mathbb{R}^3 $. From the Stratton-Chu integral representation, we derive a new representation formula when constant reference coefficients are given for the interior domain. The resulting integral representation contains the usual layer potentials, but also volume potentials on $\Omega$. Then it is possible to follow a single-trace approach to obtain boundary integral equations perturbed by traces of compact volume integral operators with weakly singular kernels. The coupled boundary and volume integral equations are discretized with a Galerkin approach with usual Curl-conforming and Div-conforming finite elements on the boundary and in the volume. Compression techniques and special quadrature rules for singular integrands are required for an efficient and accurate method. Numerical experiments provide evidence that our new formulation enjoys promising properties.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [110]
标题:  EulerFormer: Sequential User Behavior Modeling with Complex Vector  Attention
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17729
作者:  Zhen Tian,  Wayne Xin Zhao,  Changwang Zhang,  Xin Zhao,  Zhongrui Ma,  Ji-Rong Wen
备注:  Accepted for publication in SIGIR'24
Abstract:To capture user preference, transformer models have been widely applied to model sequential user behavior data. The core of transformer architecture lies in the self-attention mechanism, which computes the pairwise attention scores in a sequence. Due to the permutation-equivariant nature, positional encoding is used to enhance the attention between token representations. In this setting, the pairwise attention scores can be derived by both semantic difference and positional difference. However, prior studies often model the two kinds of difference measurements in different ways, which potentially limits the expressive capacity of sequence modeling. To address this issue, this paper proposes a novel transformer variant with complex vector attention, named EulerFormer, which provides a unified theoretical framework to formulate both semantic difference and positional difference. The EulerFormer involves two key technical improvements. First, it employs a new transformation function for efficiently transforming the sequence tokens into polar-form complex vectors using Euler's formula, enabling the unified modeling of both semantic and positional information in a complex rotation form.Secondly, it develops a differential rotation mechanism, where the semantic rotation angles can be controlled by an adaptation function, enabling the adaptive integration of the semantic and positional information according to the semantic contexts.Furthermore, a phase contrastive learning task is proposed to improve the anisotropy of contextual representations in EulerFormer. Our theoretical framework possesses a high degree of completeness and generality. It is more robust to semantic variations and possesses moresuperior theoretical properties in principle. Extensive experiments conducted on four public datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our approach.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [111]
标题:  Masked Autoencoders are PDE Learners
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17728
作者:  Anthony Zhou,  Amir Barati Farimani
备注:  10 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Neural solvers for partial differential equations (PDEs) have great potential, yet their practicality is currently limited by their generalizability. PDEs evolve over broad scales and exhibit diverse behaviors; predicting these phenomena will require learning representations across a wide variety of inputs, which may encompass different coefficients, geometries, or equations. As a step towards generalizable PDE modeling, we adapt masked pretraining for PDEs. Through self-supervised learning across PDEs, masked autoencoders can learn useful latent representations for downstream tasks. In particular, masked pretraining can improve coefficient regression and timestepping performance of neural solvers on unseen equations. We hope that masked pretraining can emerge as a unifying method across large, unlabeled, and heterogeneous datasets to learn latent physics at scale.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [112]
标题:  FastPerson: Enhancing Video Learning through Effective Video  Summarization that Preserves Linguistic and Visual Contexts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17727
作者:  Kazuki Kawamura,  Jun Rekimoto
备注:  
Abstract:Quickly understanding lengthy lecture videos is essential for learners with limited time and interest in various topics to improve their learning efficiency. To this end, video summarization has been actively researched to enable users to view only important scenes from a video. However, these studies focus on either the visual or audio information of a video and extract important segments in the video. Therefore, there is a risk of missing important information when both the teacher's speech and visual information on the blackboard or slides are important, such as in a lecture video. To tackle this issue, we propose FastPerson, a video summarization approach that considers both the visual and auditory information in lecture videos. FastPerson creates summary videos by utilizing audio transcriptions along with on-screen images and text, minimizing the risk of overlooking crucial information for learners. Further, it provides a feature that allows learners to switch between the summary and original videos for each chapter of the video, enabling them to adjust the pace of learning based on their interests and level of understanding. We conducted an evaluation with 40 participants to assess the effectiveness of our method and confirmed that it reduced viewing time by 53\% at the same level of comprehension as that when using traditional video playback methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [113]
标题:  Tiny Models are the Computational Saver for Large Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17726
作者:  Qingyuan Wang,  Barry Cardiff,  Antoine Frappé,  Benoit Larras,  Deepu John
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces TinySaver, an early-exit-like dynamic model compression approach which employs tiny models to substitute large models adaptively. Distinct from traditional compression techniques, dynamic methods like TinySaver can leverage the difficulty differences to allow certain inputs to complete their inference processes early, thereby conserving computational resources. Most existing early exit designs are implemented by attaching additional network branches to the model's backbone. Our study, however, reveals that completely independent tiny models can replace a substantial portion of the larger models' job with minimal impact on performance. Employing them as the first exit can remarkably enhance computational efficiency. By searching and employing the most appropriate tiny model as the computational saver for a given large model, the proposed approaches work as a novel and generic method to model compression. This finding will help the research community in exploring new compression methods to address the escalating computational demands posed by rapidly evolving AI models. Our evaluation of this approach in ImageNet-1k classification demonstrates its potential to reduce the number of compute operations by up to 90%, with only negligible losses in performance, across various modern vision models. The code of this work will be available.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [114]
标题:  Deep Learning for Segmentation of Cracks in High-Resolution Images of  Steel Bridges
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17725
作者:  Andrii Kompanets,  Gautam Pai,  Remco Duits,  Davide Leonetti,  Bert Snijder
备注:  
Abstract:Automating the current bridge visual inspection practices using drones and image processing techniques is a prominent way to make these inspections more effective, robust, and less expensive. In this paper, we investigate the development of a novel deep-learning method for the detection of fatigue cracks in high-resolution images of steel bridges. First, we present a novel and challenging dataset comprising of images of cracks in steel bridges. Secondly, we integrate the ConvNext neural network with a previous state- of-the-art encoder-decoder network for crack segmentation. We study and report, the effects of the use of background patches on the network performance when applied to high-resolution images of cracks in steel bridges. Finally, we introduce a loss function that allows the use of more background patches for the training process, which yields a significant reduction in false positive rates.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [115]
标题:  Evaluating Authoring Tools with the Explorable Authoring Requirements
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17714
作者:  Frederic Salmen,  Ulrik Schroeder
备注:  12 pages plus references, preprint of paper for NaKoDi2022 (adjunct to WiPSCE 2022 conference)
Abstract:Explorables with interactive, multimodal content, openly available on the web, are a promising medium for education. Yet authoring such explorables requires web development expertise, excluding most educators and students from the authoring and remixing process. Some tools are available to reduce this barrier of entry and others are in development, making a method to evaluate these new tools necessary. On the basis of the software quality model ISO 25010, empirical results, and domain modeling, we derive the Explorable Authoring Requirements (EAR) as a requirements catalogue explorable authoring tools should implement. We then outline a future research design to operationalize EAR.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [116]
标题:  Invisible Gas Detection: An RGB-Thermal Cross Attention Network and A  New Benchmark
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17712
作者:  Jue Wang,  Yuxiang Lin,  Qi Zhao,  Dong Luo,  Shuaibao Chen,  Wei Chen,  Xiaojiang Peng
备注:  
Abstract:The widespread use of various chemical gases in industrial processes necessitates effective measures to prevent their leakage during transportation and storage, given their high toxicity. Thermal infrared-based computer vision detection techniques provide a straightforward approach to identify gas leakage areas. However, the development of high-quality algorithms has been challenging due to the low texture in thermal images and the lack of open-source datasets. In this paper, we present the RGB-Thermal Cross Attention Network (RT-CAN), which employs an RGB-assisted two-stream network architecture to integrate texture information from RGB images and gas area information from thermal images. Additionally, to facilitate the research of invisible gas detection, we introduce Gas-DB, an extensive open-source gas detection database including about 1.3K well-annotated RGB-thermal images with eight variant collection scenes. Experimental results demonstrate that our method successfully leverages the advantages of both modalities, achieving state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance among RGB-thermal methods, surpassing single-stream SOTA models in terms of accuracy, Intersection of Union (IoU), and F2 metrics by 4.86%, 5.65%, and 4.88%, respectively. The code and data will be made available soon.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [117]
标题:  Using quantum computers in control: interval matrix properties
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17711
作者:  Jan Schneider,  Julian Berberich
备注:  Final version, accepted for publication in Proc. European Control Conference (ECC), 2024
Abstract:Quantum computing provides a powerful framework for tackling computational problems that are classically intractable. The goal of this paper is to explore the use of quantum computers for solving relevant problems in systems and control theory. In the recent literature, different quantum algorithms have been developed to tackle binary optimization, which plays an important role in various control-theoretic problems. As a prototypical example, we consider the verification of interval matrix properties such as non-singularity and stability on a quantum computer. We present a quantum algorithm solving these problems and we study its performance in simulation. Our results demonstrate that quantum computers provide a promising tool for control whose applicability to further computationally complex problems remains to be explored.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)

**编号**: [118]
标题:  Optimization-based Prompt Injection Attack to LLM-as-a-Judge
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17710
作者:  Jiawen Shi,  Zenghui Yuan,  Yinuo Liu,  Yue Huang,  Pan Zhou,  Lichao Sun,  Neil Zhenqiang Gong
备注:  
Abstract:LLM-as-a-Judge is a novel solution that can assess textual information with large language models (LLMs). Based on existing research studies, LLMs demonstrate remarkable performance in providing a compelling alternative to traditional human assessment. However, the robustness of these systems against prompt injection attacks remains an open question. In this work, we introduce JudgeDeceiver, a novel optimization-based prompt injection attack tailored to LLM-as-a-Judge. Our method formulates a precise optimization objective for attacking the decision-making process of LLM-as-a-Judge and utilizes an optimization algorithm to efficiently automate the generation of adversarial sequences, achieving targeted and effective manipulation of model evaluations. Compared to handcraft prompt injection attacks, our method demonstrates superior efficacy, posing a significant challenge to the current security paradigms of LLM-based judgment systems. Through extensive experiments, we showcase the capability of JudgeDeceiver in altering decision outcomes across various cases, highlighting the vulnerability of LLM-as-a-Judge systems to the optimization-based prompt injection attack.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [119]
标题:  Groupwise Query Specialization and Quality-Aware Multi-Assignment for  Transformer-based Visual Relationship Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17709
作者:  Jongha Kim,  Jihwan Park,  Jinyoung Park,  Jinyoung Kim,  Sehyung Kim,  Hyunwoo J. Kim
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Visual Relationship Detection (VRD) has seen significant advancements with Transformer-based architectures recently. However, we identify two key limitations in a conventional label assignment for training Transformer-based VRD models, which is a process of mapping a ground-truth (GT) to a prediction. Under the conventional assignment, an unspecialized query is trained since a query is expected to detect every relation, which makes it difficult for a query to specialize in specific relations. Furthermore, a query is also insufficiently trained since a GT is assigned only to a single prediction, therefore near-correct or even correct predictions are suppressed by being assigned no relation as a GT. To address these issues, we propose Groupwise Query Specialization and Quality-Aware Multi-Assignment (SpeaQ). Groupwise Query Specialization trains a specialized query by dividing queries and relations into disjoint groups and directing a query in a specific query group solely toward relations in the corresponding relation group. Quality-Aware Multi-Assignment further facilitates the training by assigning a GT to multiple predictions that are significantly close to a GT in terms of a subject, an object, and the relation in between. Experimental results and analyses show that SpeaQ effectively trains specialized queries, which better utilize the capacity of a model, resulting in consistent performance gains with zero additional inference cost across multiple VRD models and benchmarks. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [120]
标题:  Panonut360: A Head and Eye Tracking Dataset for Panoramic Video
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17708
作者:  Yutong Xu,  Junhao Du,  Jiahe Wang,  Yuwei Ning,  Sihan Zhou Yang Cao
备注:  7 pages,ACM MMSys'24 accepted
Abstract:With the rapid development and widespread application of VR/AR technology, maximizing the quality of immersive panoramic video services that match users' personal preferences and habits has become a long-standing challenge. Understanding the saliency region where users focus, based on data collected with HMDs, can promote multimedia encoding, transmission, and quality assessment. At the same time, large-scale datasets are essential for researchers and developers to explore short/long-term user behavior patterns and train AI models related to panoramic videos. However, existing panoramic video datasets often include low-frequency user head or eye movement data through short-term videos only, lacking sufficient data for analyzing users' Field of View (FoV) and generating video saliency regions. Driven by these practical factors, in this paper, we present a head and eye tracking dataset involving 50 users (25 males and 25 females) watching 15 panoramic videos. The dataset provides details on the viewport and gaze attention locations of users. Besides, we present some statistics samples extracted from the dataset. For example, the deviation between head and eye movements challenges the widely held assumption that gaze attention decreases from the center of the FoV following a Gaussian distribution. Our analysis reveals a consistent downward offset in gaze fixations relative to the FoV in experimental settings involving multiple users and videos. That's why we name the dataset Panonut, a saliency weighting shaped like a donut. Finally, we also provide a script that generates saliency distributions based on given head or eye coordinates and pre-generated saliency distribution map sets of each video from the collected eye tracking data. The dataset is available on website: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [121]
标题:  Enhanced Short Text Modeling: Leveraging Large Language Models for Topic  Refinement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17706
作者:  Shuyu Chang,  Rui Wang,  Peng Ren,  Haiping Huang
备注:  6 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Crafting effective topic models for brief texts, like tweets and news headlines, is essential for capturing the swift shifts in social dynamics. Traditional topic models, however, often fall short in accurately representing the semantic intricacies of short texts due to their brevity and lack of contextual data. In our study, we harness the advanced capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to introduce a novel approach termed "Topic Refinement". This approach does not directly involve itself in the initial modeling of topics but focuses on improving topics after they have been mined. By employing prompt engineering, we direct LLMs to eliminate off-topic words within a given topic, ensuring that only contextually relevant words are preserved or substituted with ones that fit better semantically. This method emulates human-like scrutiny and improvement of topics, thereby elevating the semantic quality of the topics generated by various models. Our comprehensive evaluation across three unique datasets has shown that our topic refinement approach significantly enhances the semantic coherence of topics.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [122]
标题:  Prioritize Team Actions: Multi-Agent Temporal Logic Task Planning with  Ordering Constraints
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17704
作者:  Bowen Ye,  Jianing Zhao,  Shaoyuan Li,  Xiang Yin
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we investigate the problem of linear temporal logic (LTL) path planning for multi-agent systems, introducing the new concept of \emph{ordering constraints}. Specifically, we consider a generic objective function that is defined for the path of each individual agent. The primary objective is to find a global plan for the team of agents, ensuring they collectively meet the specified LTL requirements. Simultaneously, we aim to maintain a pre-determined order in the values of the objective function for each agent, which we refer to as the ordering constraints. This new requirement stems from scenarios like security-aware planning, where relative orders outweigh absolute values in importance. We present an efficient algorithm to solve this problem, supported by proofs of correctness that demonstrate the optimality of our solution. Additionally, we provide a case study in security-aware path planning to illustrate the practicality and effectiveness of our proposed approach.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [123]
标题:  The Solution for the CVPR 2023 1st foundation model challenge-Track2
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17702
作者:  Haonan Xu,  Yurui Huang,  Sishun Pan,  Zhihao Guan,  Yi Xu,  Yang Yang
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a solution for cross-modal transportation retrieval. Due to the cross-domain problem of traffic images, we divide the problem into two sub-tasks of pedestrian retrieval and vehicle retrieval through a simple strategy. In pedestrian retrieval tasks, we use IRRA as the base model and specifically design an Attribute Classification to mine the knowledge implied by attribute labels. More importantly, We use the strategy of Inclusion Relation Matching to make the image-text pairs with inclusion relation have similar representation in the feature space. For the vehicle retrieval task, we use BLIP as the base model. Since aligning the color attributes of vehicles is challenging, we introduce attribute-based object detection techniques to add color patch blocks to vehicle images for color data augmentation. This serves as strong prior information, helping the model perform the image-text alignment. At the same time, we incorporate labeled attributes into the image-text alignment loss to learn fine-grained alignment and prevent similar images and texts from being incorrectly separated. Our approach ranked first in the final B-board test with a score of 70.9.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [124]
标题:  MEP: Multiple Kernel Learning Enhancing Relative Positional Encoding  Length Extrapolation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17698
作者:  Weiguo Gao
备注:  
Abstract:When the predicted sequence length exceeds the length seen during training, the transformer's inference accuracy diminishes. Existing relative position encoding methods, such as those based on the ALiBi technique, address the length extrapolation challenge exclusively through the implementation of a single kernel function, which introduces a constant bias to every post-softmax attention scores according to their distance. These approaches do not investigate or employ multiple kernel functions to address the extrapolation challenge. Drawing on the ALiBi approach, this study proposes a novel relative positional encoding method, called MEP, which employs a weighted average to combine distinct kernel functions(such as the exponential kernel and the Gaussian kernel) to generate a bias that is applied to post-softmax attention scores. Initially, the framework utilizes various kernel functions to construct multiple kernel functions. Each kernel function adheres to a consistent mean weight coefficient, harnessing the synergistic advantages of different kernels to formulate an innovative bias function. Subsequently, specific slopes are tailored for each kernel function, applying penalties at varying rates, to enhance the model's extrapolation capabilities. Finally, this bias is seamlessly incorporated as a penalty to the post-softmax scores. We present two distinct versions of our method: a parameter-free variant that requires no new learnable parameters, which enhances length extrapolation capabilities without compromising training efficiency, and a parameterized variant capable of integrating state-of-the-art techniques. Empirical evaluations across diverse datasets have demonstrated that both variants of our method achieve state-of-the-art performance, outperforming traditional parameter-free and parameterized approaches.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [125]
标题:  PlainMamba: Improving Non-Hierarchical Mamba in Visual Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17695
作者:  Chenhongyi Yang,  Zehui Chen,  Miguel Espinosa,  Linus Ericsson,  Zhenyu Wang,  Jiaming Liu,  Elliot J. Crowley
备注:  
Abstract:We present PlainMamba: a simple non-hierarchical state space model (SSM) designed for general visual recognition. The recent Mamba model has shown how SSMs can be highly competitive with other architectures on sequential data and initial attempts have been made to apply it to images. In this paper, we further adapt the selective scanning process of Mamba to the visual domain, enhancing its ability to learn features from two-dimensional images by (i) a continuous 2D scanning process that improves spatial continuity by ensuring adjacency of tokens in the scanning sequence, and (ii) direction-aware updating which enables the model to discern the spatial relations of tokens by encoding directional information. Our architecture is designed to be easy to use and easy to scale, formed by stacking identical PlainMamba blocks, resulting in a model with constant width throughout all layers. The architecture is further simplified by removing the need for special tokens. We evaluate PlainMamba on a variety of visual recognition tasks including image classification, semantic segmentation, object detection, and instance segmentation. Our method achieves performance gains over previous non-hierarchical models and is competitive with hierarchical alternatives. For tasks requiring high-resolution inputs, in particular, PlainMamba requires much less computing while maintaining high performance. Code and models are available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [126]
标题:  AniPortrait: Audio-Driven Synthesis of Photorealistic Portrait Animation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17694
作者:  Huawei Wei,  Zejun Yang,  Zhisheng Wang
备注:  
Abstract:In this study, we propose AniPortrait, a novel framework for generating high-quality animation driven by audio and a reference portrait image. Our methodology is divided into two stages. Initially, we extract 3D intermediate representations from audio and project them into a sequence of 2D facial landmarks. Subsequently, we employ a robust diffusion model, coupled with a motion module, to convert the landmark sequence into photorealistic and temporally consistent portrait animation. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of AniPortrait in terms of facial naturalness, pose diversity, and visual quality, thereby offering an enhanced perceptual experience. Moreover, our methodology exhibits considerable potential in terms of flexibility and controllability, which can be effectively applied in areas such as facial motion editing or face reenactment. We release code and model weights at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [127]
标题:  ExpressEdit: Video Editing with Natural Language and Sketching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17693
作者:  Bekzat Tilekbay,  Saelyne Yang,  Michal Lewkowicz,  Alex Suryapranata,  Juho Kim
备注:  22 pages, 5 figures, to be published in ACM IUI 2024
Abstract:Informational videos serve as a crucial source for explaining conceptual and procedural knowledge to novices and experts alike. When producing informational videos, editors edit videos by overlaying text/images or trimming footage to enhance the video quality and make it more engaging. However, video editing can be difficult and time-consuming, especially for novice video editors who often struggle with expressing and implementing their editing ideas. To address this challenge, we first explored how multimodality$-$natural language (NL) and sketching, which are natural modalities humans use for expression$-$can be utilized to support video editors in expressing video editing ideas. We gathered 176 multimodal expressions of editing commands from 10 video editors, which revealed the patterns of use of NL and sketching in describing edit intents. Based on the findings, we present ExpressEdit, a system that enables editing videos via NL text and sketching on the video frame. Powered by LLM and vision models, the system interprets (1) temporal, (2) spatial, and (3) operational references in an NL command and spatial references from sketching. The system implements the interpreted edits, which then the user can iterate on. An observational study (N=10) showed that ExpressEdit enhanced the ability of novice video editors to express and implement their edit ideas. The system allowed participants to perform edits more efficiently and generate more ideas by generating edits based on user's multimodal edit commands and supporting iterations on the editing commands. This work offers insights into the design of future multimodal interfaces and AI-based pipelines for video editing.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [128]
标题:  Manifold-Guided Lyapunov Control with Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17692
作者:  Amartya Mukherjee,  Thanin Quartz,  Jun Liu
备注:  14 pages
Abstract:This paper presents a novel approach to generating stabilizing controllers for a large class of dynamical systems using diffusion models. The core objective is to develop stabilizing control functions by identifying the closest asymptotically stable vector field relative to a predetermined manifold and adjusting the control function based on this finding. To achieve this, we employ a diffusion model trained on pairs consisting of asymptotically stable vector fields and their corresponding Lyapunov functions. Our numerical results demonstrate that this pre-trained model can achieve stabilization over previously unseen systems efficiently and rapidly, showcasing the potential of our approach in fast zero-shot control and generalizability.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Computation (stat.CO)

**编号**: [129]
标题:  Not All Similarities Are Created Equal: Leveraging Data-Driven Biases to  Inform GenAI Copyright Disputes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17691
作者:  Uri Hacohen,  Adi Haviv,  Shahar Sarfaty,  Bruria Friedman,  Niva Elkin-Koren,  Roi Livni,  Amit H Bermano
备注:  Presented at ACM CSLAW 2024
Abstract:The advent of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) models, including GitHub Copilot, OpenAI GPT, and Stable Diffusion, has revolutionized content creation, enabling non-professionals to produce high-quality content across various domains. This transformative technology has led to a surge of synthetic content and sparked legal disputes over copyright infringement. To address these challenges, this paper introduces a novel approach that leverages the learning capacity of GenAI models for copyright legal analysis, demonstrated with GPT2 and Stable Diffusion models. Copyright law distinguishes between original expressions and generic ones (Scènes à faire), protecting the former and permitting reproduction of the latter. However, this distinction has historically been challenging to make consistently, leading to over-protection of copyrighted works. GenAI offers an unprecedented opportunity to enhance this legal analysis by revealing shared patterns in preexisting works. We propose a data-driven approach to identify the genericity of works created by GenAI, employing "data-driven bias" to assess the genericity of expressive compositions. This approach aids in copyright scope determination by utilizing the capabilities of GenAI to identify and prioritize expressive elements and rank them according to their frequency in the model's dataset. The potential implications of measuring expressive genericity for copyright law are profound. Such scoring could assist courts in determining copyright scope during litigation, inform the registration practices of Copyright Offices, allowing registration of only highly original synthetic works, and help copyright owners signal the value of their works and facilitate fairer licensing deals. More generally, this approach offers valuable insights to policymakers grappling with adapting copyright law to the challenges posed by the era of GenAI.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [130]
标题:  Large Language Models Enhanced Collaborative Filtering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17688
作者:  Zhongxiang Sun,  Zihua Si,  Xiaoxue Zang,  Kai Zheng,  Yang Song,  Xiao Zhang,  Jun Xu
备注:  11 pages
Abstract:Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have attracted considerable interest among researchers to leverage these models to enhance Recommender Systems (RSs). Existing work predominantly utilizes LLMs to generate knowledge-rich texts or utilizes LLM-derived embeddings as features to improve RSs. Al- though the extensive world knowledge embedded in LLMs generally benefits RSs, the application can only take limited number of users and items as inputs, without adequately exploiting collaborative filtering information. Considering its crucial role in RSs, one key challenge in enhancing RSs with LLMs lies in providing better collaborative filtering information through LLMs. In this paper, drawing inspiration from the in-context learning and chain of thought reasoning in LLMs, we propose the Large Language Models enhanced Collaborative Filtering (LLM-CF) framework, which distils the world knowledge and reasoning capabilities of LLMs into collaborative filtering. We also explored a concise and efficient instruction-tuning method, which improves the recommendation capabilities of LLMs while preserving their general functionalities (e.g., not decreasing on the LLM benchmark). Comprehensive experiments on three real-world datasets demonstrate that LLM-CF significantly enhances several backbone recommendation models and consistently outperforms competitive baselines, showcasing its effectiveness in distilling the world knowledge and reasoning capabilities of LLM into collaborative filtering.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [131]
标题:  Solution for Emotion Prediction Competition of Workshop on Emotionally  and Culturally Intelligent AI
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17683
作者:  Shengdong Xu,  Zhouyang Chi,  Yang Yang
备注:  
Abstract:This report provide a detailed description of the method that we explored and proposed in the WECIA Emotion Prediction Competition (EPC), which predicts a person's emotion through an artistic work with a comment. The dataset of this competition is ArtELingo, designed to encourage work on diversity across languages and cultures. The dataset has two main challenges, namely modal imbalance problem and language-cultural differences problem. In order to address this issue, we propose a simple yet effective approach called single-multi modal with Emotion-Cultural specific prompt(ECSP), which focuses on using the single modal message to enhance the performance of multimodal models and a well-designed prompt to reduce cultural differences problem. To clarify, our approach contains two main blocks: (1)XLM-R\cite{conneau2019unsupervised} based unimodal model and X$^2$-VLM\cite{zeng2022x} based multimodal model (2) Emotion-Cultural specific prompt. Our approach ranked first in the final test with a score of 0.627.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [132]
标题:  Shape Optimization of Geometrically Nonlinear Modal Coupling  Coefficients: An Application to MEMS Gyroscopes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17679
作者:  Daniel Schiwietz,  Marian Hörsting,  Eva Maria Weig,  Matthias Wenzel,  Peter Degenfeld-Schonburg
备注:  
Abstract:Micro- and nanoelectromechanical system (MEMS and NEMS) resonators can exhibit rich nonlinear dynamics as they are often operated at large amplitudes with high quality factors and possess a high mode density with a variety of nonlinear modal couplings. Their impact is strongly influenced by internal resonance conditions and by the strength of the modal coupling coefficients. On one hand, strong nonlinear couplings are of academic interest and promise novel device concepts. On the other hand, however, they have the potential to disturb the linear system behavior on which industrial devices such as gyroscopes and micro mirrors are based on. In either case, being able to optimize the coupling coefficients by design is certainly beneficial. A main source of nonlinear modal couplings are geometric nonlinearities. In this work, we apply node-based shape optimization to tune the geometrically nonlinear 3-wave coupling coefficients of a MEMS gyroscope. We demonstrate that individual coupling coefficients can be tuned over several orders of magnitude by shape optimization, while satisfying typical constraints on manufacturability and operability of the devices. The optimized designs contain unintuitive geometrical features far away from any solution an experienced human MEMS or NEMS designer could have thought of. Thus, this work demonstrates the power of shape optimization for tailoring the complex nonlinear dynamic properties of MEMS and NEMS resonators.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [133]
标题:  Hierarchical Light Transformer Ensembles for Multimodal Trajectory  Forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17678
作者:  Adrien Lafage,  Mathieu Barbier,  Gianni Franchi,  David Filliat
备注:  
Abstract:Accurate trajectory forecasting is crucial for the performance of various systems, such as advanced driver-assistance systems and self-driving vehicles. These forecasts allow to anticipate events leading to collisions and, therefore, to mitigate them. Deep Neural Networks have excelled in motion forecasting, but issues like overconfidence and uncertainty quantification persist. Deep Ensembles address these concerns, yet applying them to multimodal distributions remains challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel approach named Hierarchical Light Transformer Ensembles (HLT-Ens), aimed at efficiently training an ensemble of Transformer architectures using a novel hierarchical loss function. HLT-Ens leverages grouped fully connected layers, inspired by grouped convolution techniques, to capture multimodal distributions, effectively. Through extensive experimentation, we demonstrate that HLT-Ens achieves state-of-the-art performance levels, offering a promising avenue for improving trajectory forecasting techniques.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [134]
标题:  Depending on yourself when you should: Mentoring LLM with RL agents to  become the master in cybersecurity games
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17674
作者:  Yikuan Yan,  Yaolun Zhang,  Keman Huang
备注:  10 pages
Abstract:Integrating LLM and reinforcement learning (RL) agent effectively to achieve complementary performance is critical in high stake tasks like cybersecurity operations. In this study, we introduce SecurityBot, a LLM agent mentored by pre-trained RL agents, to support cybersecurity operations. In particularly, the LLM agent is supported with a profile module to generated behavior guidelines, a memory module to accumulate local experiences, a reflection module to re-evaluate choices, and an action module to reduce action space. Additionally, it adopts the collaboration mechanism to take suggestions from pre-trained RL agents, including a cursor for dynamic suggestion taken, an aggregator for multiple mentors' suggestions ranking and a caller for proactive suggestion asking. Building on the CybORG experiment framework, our experiences show that SecurityBot demonstrates significant performance improvement compared with LLM or RL standalone, achieving the complementary performance in the cybersecurity games.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [135]
标题:  How Private is DP-SGD?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17673
作者:  Lynn Chua,  Badih Ghazi,  Pritish Kamath,  Ravi Kumar,  Pasin Manurangsi,  Amer Sinha,  Chiyuan Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:We demonstrate a substantial gap between the privacy guarantees of the Adaptive Batch Linear Queries (ABLQ) mechanism under different types of batch sampling: (i) Shuffling, and (ii) Poisson subsampling; the typical analysis of Differentially Private Stochastic Gradient Descent (DP-SGD) follows by interpreting it as a post-processing of ABLQ. While shuffling based DP-SGD is more commonly used in practical implementations, it is neither analytically nor numerically amenable to easy privacy analysis. On the other hand, Poisson subsampling based DP-SGD is challenging to scalably implement, but has a well-understood privacy analysis, with multiple open-source numerically tight privacy accountants available. This has led to a common practice of using shuffling based DP-SGD in practice, but using the privacy analysis for the corresponding Poisson subsampling version. Our result shows that there can be a substantial gap between the privacy analysis when using the two types of batch sampling, and thus advises caution in reporting privacy parameters for DP-SGD.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [136]
标题:  Predicting Perceived Gloss: Do Weak Labels Suffice?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17672
作者:  Julia Guerrero-Viu,  J. Daniel Subias,  Ana Serrano,  Katherine R. Storrs,  Roland W. Fleming,  Belen Masia,  Diego Gutierrez
备注:  Computer Graphics Forum (Eurographics 2024)
Abstract:Estimating perceptual attributes of materials directly from images is a challenging task due to their complex, not fully-understood interactions with external factors, such as geometry and lighting. Supervised deep learning models have recently been shown to outperform traditional approaches, but rely on large datasets of human-annotated images for accurate perception predictions. Obtaining reliable annotations is a costly endeavor, aggravated by the limited ability of these models to generalise to different aspects of appearance. In this work, we show how a much smaller set of human annotations ("strong labels") can be effectively augmented with automatically derived "weak labels" in the context of learning a low-dimensional image-computable gloss metric. We evaluate three alternative weak labels for predicting human gloss perception from limited annotated data. Incorporating weak labels enhances our gloss prediction beyond the current state of the art. Moreover, it enables a substantial reduction in human annotation costs without sacrificing accuracy, whether working with rendered images or real photographs.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [137]
标题:  Learning Goal-Directed Object Pushing in Cluttered Scenes with  Location-Based Attention
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17667
作者:  Nils Dengler,  Juan Del Aguila Ferrandis,  João Moura,  Sethu Vijayakumar,  Maren Bennewitz
备注:  Submitted to IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)
Abstract:Non-prehensile planar pushing is a challenging task due to its underactuated nature with hybrid-dynamics, where a robot needs to reason about an object's long-term behaviour and contact-switching, while being robust to contact uncertainty. The presence of clutter in the environment further complicates this task, introducing the need to include more sophisticated spatial analysis to avoid collisions. Building upon prior work on reinforcement learning (RL) with multimodal categorical exploration for planar pushing, in this paper we incorporate location-based attention to enable robust navigation through clutter. Unlike previous RL literature addressing this obstacle avoidance pushing task, our framework requires no predefined global paths and considers the target orientation of the manipulated object. Our results demonstrate that the learned policies successfully navigate through a wide range of complex obstacle configurations, including dynamic obstacles, with smooth motions, achieving the desired target object pose. We also validate the transferability of the learned policies to robotic hardware using the KUKA iiwa robot arm.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [138]
标题:  When View- and Conflict-Robustness Coincide for Multiversion Concurrency  Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17665
作者:  Brecht Vandevoort,  Bas Ketsman,  Frank Neven
备注:  22 pages
Abstract:A DBMS allows trading consistency for efficiency through the allocation of isolation levels that are strictly weaker than serializability. The robustness problem asks whether, for a given set of transactions and a given allocation of isolation levels, every possible interleaved execution of those transactions that is allowed under the provided allocation, is always safe. In the literature, safe is interpreted as conflict-serializable (to which we refer here as conflict-robustness). In this paper, we study the view-robustness problem, interpreting safe as view-serializable. View-serializability is a more permissive notion that allows for a greater number of schedules to be serializable and aligns more closely with the intuitive understanding of what it means for a database to be consistent. However, view-serializability is more complex to analyze (e.g., conflict-serializability can be decided in polynomial time whereas deciding view-serializability is NP-complete). While conflict-robustness implies view-robustness, the converse does not hold in general. In this paper, we provide a sufficient condition for isolation levels guaranteeing that conflict- and view-robustness coincide and show that this condition is satisfied by the isolation levels occurring in Postgres and Oracle: read committed (RC), snapshot isolation (SI) and serializable snapshot isolation (SSI). It hence follows that for these systems, widening from conflict- to view-serializability does not allow for more sets of transactions to become robust. Interestingly, the complexity of deciding serializability within these isolation levels is still quite different. Indeed, deciding conflict-serializability for schedules allowed under RC and SI remains in polynomial time, while we show that deciding view-serializability within these isolation levels remains NP-complete.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [139]
标题:  DiffFAE: Advancing High-fidelity One-shot Facial Appearance Editing with  Space-sensitive Customization and Semantic Preservation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17664
作者:  Qilin Wang,  Jiangning Zhang,  Chengming Xu,  Weijian Cao,  Ying Tai,  Yue Han,  Yanhao Ge,  Hong Gu,  Chengjie Wang,  Yanwei Fu
备注:  
Abstract:Facial Appearance Editing (FAE) aims to modify physical attributes, such as pose, expression and lighting, of human facial images while preserving attributes like identity and background, showing great importance in photograph. In spite of the great progress in this area, current researches generally meet three challenges: low generation fidelity, poor attribute preservation, and inefficient inference. To overcome above challenges, this paper presents DiffFAE, a one-stage and highly-efficient diffusion-based framework tailored for high-fidelity FAE. For high-fidelity query attributes transfer, we adopt Space-sensitive Physical Customization (SPC), which ensures the fidelity and generalization ability by utilizing rendering texture derived from 3D Morphable Model (3DMM). In order to preserve source attributes, we introduce the Region-responsive Semantic Composition (RSC). This module is guided to learn decoupled source-regarding features, thereby better preserving the identity and alleviating artifacts from non-facial attributes such as hair, clothes, and background. We further introduce a consistency regularization for our pipeline to enhance editing controllability by leveraging prior knowledge in the attention matrices of diffusion model. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of DiffFAE over existing methods, achieving state-of-the-art performance in facial appearance editing.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [140]
标题:  Language Models for Text Classification: Is In-Context Learning Enough?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17661
作者:  Aleksandra Edwards,  Jose Camacho-Collados
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Recent foundational language models have shown state-of-the-art performance in many NLP tasks in zero- and few-shot settings. An advantage of these models over more standard approaches based on fine-tuning is the ability to understand instructions written in natural language (prompts), which helps them generalise better to different tasks and domains without the need for specific training data. This makes them suitable for addressing text classification problems for domains with limited amounts of annotated instances. However, existing research is limited in scale and lacks understanding of how text generation models combined with prompting techniques compare to more established methods for text classification such as fine-tuning masked language models. In this paper, we address this research gap by performing a large-scale evaluation study for 16 text classification datasets covering binary, multiclass, and multilabel problems. In particular, we compare zero- and few-shot approaches of large language models to fine-tuning smaller language models. We also analyse the results by prompt, classification type, domain, and number of labels. In general, the results show how fine-tuning smaller and more efficient language models can still outperform few-shot approaches of larger language models, which have room for improvement when it comes to text classification.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [141]
标题:  CANOS: A Fast and Scalable Neural AC-OPF Solver Robust To N-1  Perturbations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17660
作者:  Luis Piloto,  Sofia Liguori,  Sephora Madjiheurem,  Miha Zgubic,  Sean Lovett,  Hamish Tomlinson,  Sophie Elster,  Chris Apps,  Sims Witherspoon
备注:  
Abstract:Optimal Power Flow (OPF) refers to a wide range of related optimization problems with the goal of operating power systems efficiently and securely. In the simplest setting, OPF determines how much power to generate in order to minimize costs while meeting demand for power and satisfying physical and operational constraints. In even the simplest case, power grid operators use approximations of the AC-OPF problem because solving the exact problem is prohibitively slow with state-of-the-art solvers. These approximations sacrifice accuracy and operational feasibility in favor of speed. This trade-off leads to costly "uplift payments" and increased carbon emissions, especially for large power grids. In the present work, we train a deep learning system (CANOS) to predict near-optimal solutions (within 1% of the true AC-OPF cost) without compromising speed (running in as little as 33--65 ms). Importantly, CANOS scales to realistic grid sizes with promising empirical results on grids containing as many as 10,000 buses. Finally, because CANOS is a Graph Neural Network, it is robust to changes in topology. We show that CANOS is accurate across N-1 topological perturbations of a base grid typically used in security-constrained analysis. This paves the way for more efficient optimization of more complex OPF problems which alter grid connectivity such as unit commitment, topology optimization and security-constrained OPF.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [142]
标题:  Generalising the maximum independent set algorithm via Boolean networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17658
作者:  Maximilien Gadouleau,  David C. Kutner
备注:  Significantly extends arxiv:2307.05216
Abstract:A simple greedy algorithm to find a maximal independent set (MIS) in a graph starts with the empty set and visits every vertex, adding it to the set if and only if none of its neighbours are already in the set. In this paper, we consider the generalisation of this MIS algorithm by letting it start with any set of vertices and we prove the hardness of many decision problems related to this generalisation. Our results are based on two main strategies. Firstly, we view the MIS algorithm as a sequential update of a Boolean network, which we refer to as the MIS network, according to a permutation of the vertex set. The set of fixed points of the MIS network corresponds to the set of MIS of the graph. Our generalisation then consists in starting from any configuration and following a sequential update given by a word of vertices. Secondly, we introduce the concept of a colony of a graph, that is a set of vertices that is dominated by an independent set. Deciding whether a set of vertices is a colony is NP-complete; decision problems related to the MIS algorithm will be reduced from the Colony problem. We first show that deciding whether a configuration can reach all maximal independent sets is coNP-complete. Second, we consider so-called fixing words, that allow to reach a MIS for any initial configuration, and fixing permutations, which we call permises; deciding whether a permutation is fixing is coNP-complete. Third, we show that deciding whether a graph has a permis is coNP-hard. Finally, we generalise the MIS algorithm to digraphs. The algorithm then uses the so-called kernel network, whose fixed points are the kernels of the digraph. Deciding whether the kernel network of a given digraph is fixable is coNP-hard, even for digraphs that have a kernel. Alternatively, we introduce two fixable Boolean networks whose sets of fixed points contain all kernels.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [143]
标题:  SGHormer: An Energy-Saving Graph Transformer Driven by Spikes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17656
作者:  Huizhe Zhang,  Jintang Li,  Liang Chen,  Zibin Zheng
备注:  9 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Graph Transformers (GTs) with powerful representation learning ability make a huge success in wide range of graph tasks. However, the costs behind outstanding performances of GTs are higher energy consumption and computational overhead. The complex structure and quadratic complexity during attention calculation in vanilla transformer seriously hinder its scalability on the large-scale graph data. Though existing methods have made strides in simplifying combinations among blocks or attention-learning paradigm to improve GTs' efficiency, a series of energy-saving solutions originated from biologically plausible structures are rarely taken into consideration when constructing GT framework. To this end, we propose a new spiking-based graph transformer (SGHormer). It turns full-precision embeddings into sparse and binarized spikes to reduce memory and computational costs. The spiking graph self-attention and spiking rectify blocks in SGHormer explicitly capture global structure information and recover the expressive power of spiking embeddings, respectively. In experiments, SGHormer achieves comparable performances to other full-precision GTs with extremely low computational energy consumption. The results show that SGHomer makes a remarkable progress in the field of low-energy GTs.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [144]
标题:  An Extension-based Approach for Computing and Verifying Preferences in  Abstract Argumentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17653
作者:  Quratul-ain Mahesar,  Nir Oren,  Wamberto W. Vasconcelos
备注:  
Abstract:We present an extension-based approach for computing and verifying preferences in an abstract argumentation system. Although numerous argumentation semantics have been developed previously for identifying acceptable sets of arguments from an argumentation framework, there is a lack of justification behind their acceptability based on implicit argument preferences. Preference-based argumentation frameworks allow one to determine what arguments are justified given a set of preferences. Our research considers the inverse of the standard reasoning problem, i.e., given an abstract argumentation framework and a set of justified arguments, we compute what the possible preferences over arguments are. Furthermore, there is a need to verify (i.e., assess) that the computed preferences would lead to the acceptable sets of arguments. This paper presents a novel approach and algorithm for exhaustively computing and enumerating all possible sets of preferences (restricted to three identified cases) for a conflict-free set of arguments in an abstract argumentation framework. We prove the soundness, completeness and termination of the algorithm. The research establishes that preferences are determined using an extension-based approach after the evaluation phase (acceptability of arguments) rather than stated beforehand. In this work, we focus our research study on grounded, preferred and stable semantics. We show that the complexity of computing sets of preferences is exponential in the number of arguments, and thus, describe an approximate approach and algorithm to compute the preferences. Furthermore, we present novel algorithms for verifying (i.e., assessing) the computed preferences. We provide details of the implementation of the algorithms (source code has been made available), various experiments performed to evaluate the algorithms and the analysis of the results.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [145]
标题:  Exploring Dynamic Transformer for Efficient Object Tracking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17651
作者:  Jiawen Zhu,  Xin Chen,  Haiwen Diao,  Shuai Li,  Jun-Yan He,  Chenyang Li,  Bin Luo,  Dong Wang,  Huchuan Lu
备注:  
Abstract:The speed-precision trade-off is a critical problem for visual object tracking which usually requires low latency and deployment on constrained resources. Existing solutions for efficient tracking mainly focus on adopting light-weight backbones or modules, which nevertheless come at the cost of a sacrifice in precision. In this paper, inspired by dynamic network routing, we propose DyTrack, a dynamic transformer framework for efficient tracking. Real-world tracking scenarios exhibit diverse levels of complexity. We argue that a simple network is sufficient for easy frames in video sequences, while more computation could be assigned to difficult ones. DyTrack automatically learns to configure proper reasoning routes for various inputs, gaining better utilization of the available computational budget. Thus, it can achieve higher performance with the same running speed. We formulate instance-specific tracking as a sequential decision problem and attach terminating branches to intermediate layers of the entire model. Especially, to fully utilize the computations, we introduce the feature recycling mechanism to reuse the outputs of predecessors. Furthermore, a target-aware self-distillation strategy is designed to enhance the discriminating capabilities of early predictions by effectively mimicking the representation pattern of the deep model. Extensive experiments on multiple benchmarks demonstrate that DyTrack achieves promising speed-precision trade-offs with only a single model. For instance, DyTrack obtains 64.9% AUC on LaSOT with a speed of 256 fps.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [146]
标题:  Healthcare Data Governance, Privacy, and Security - A Conceptual  Framework
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17648
作者:  Amen Faridoon,  M. Tahar Kechadi
备注:  
Abstract:The abundance of data has transformed the world in every aspect. It has become the core element in decision making, problem solving, and innovation in almost all areas of life, including business, science, healthcare, education, and many others. Despite all these advances, privacy and security remain critical concerns of the healthcare industry. It is important to note that healthcare data can also be a liability if it is not managed correctly. This data mismanagement can have severe consequences for patients and healthcare organisations, including patient safety, legal liability, damage to reputation, financial loss, and operational inefficiency. Healthcare organisations must comply with a range of regulations to protect patient data. We perform a classification of data governance elements or components in a manner that thoroughly assesses the healthcare data chain from a privacy and security standpoint. After deeply analysing the existing literature, we propose a conceptual privacy and security driven healthcare data governance framework.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [147]
标题:  Intrinsic Subgraph Generation for Interpretable Graph based Visual  Question Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17647
作者:  Pascal Tilli,  Ngoc Thang Vu
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:The large success of deep learning based methods in Visual Question Answering (VQA) has concurrently increased the demand for explainable methods. Most methods in Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) focus on generating post-hoc explanations rather than taking an intrinsic approach, the latter characterizing an interpretable model. In this work, we introduce an interpretable approach for graph-based VQA and demonstrate competitive performance on the GQA dataset. This approach bridges the gap between interpretability and performance. Our model is designed to intrinsically produce a subgraph during the question-answering process as its explanation, providing insight into the decision making. To evaluate the quality of these generated subgraphs, we compare them against established post-hoc explainability methods for graph neural networks, and perform a human evaluation. Moreover, we present quantitative metrics that correlate with the evaluations of human assessors, acting as automatic metrics for the generated explanatory subgraphs. Our implementation is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [148]
标题:  Uncertainty-aware Distributional Offline Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17646
作者:  Xiaocong Chen,  Siyu Wang,  Tong Yu,  Lina Yao
备注:  
Abstract:Offline reinforcement learning (RL) presents distinct challenges as it relies solely on observational data. A central concern in this context is ensuring the safety of the learned policy by quantifying uncertainties associated with various actions and environmental stochasticity. Traditional approaches primarily emphasize mitigating epistemic uncertainty by learning risk-averse policies, often overlooking environmental stochasticity. In this study, we propose an uncertainty-aware distributional offline RL method to simultaneously address both epistemic uncertainty and environmental stochasticity. We propose a model-free offline RL algorithm capable of learning risk-averse policies and characterizing the entire distribution of discounted cumulative rewards, as opposed to merely maximizing the expected value of accumulated discounted returns. Our method is rigorously evaluated through comprehensive experiments in both risk-sensitive and risk-neutral benchmarks, demonstrating its superior performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [149]
标题:  DANCER: Entity Description Augmented Named Entity Corrector for  Automatic Speech Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17645
作者:  Yi-Cheng Wang,  Hsin-Wei Wang,  Bi-Cheng Yan,  Chi-Han Lin,  Berlin Chen
备注:  
Abstract:End-to-end automatic speech recognition (E2E ASR) systems often suffer from mistranscription of domain-specific phrases, such as named entities, sometimes leading to catastrophic failures in downstream tasks. A family of fast and lightweight named entity correction (NEC) models for ASR have recently been proposed, which normally build on phonetic-level edit distance algorithms and have shown impressive NEC performance. However, as the named entity (NE) list grows, the problems of phonetic confusion in the NE list are exacerbated; for example, homophone ambiguities increase substantially. In view of this, we proposed a novel Description Augmented Named entity CorrEctoR (dubbed DANCER), which leverages entity descriptions to provide additional information to facilitate mitigation of phonetic confusion for NEC on ASR transcription. To this end, an efficient entity description augmented masked language model (EDA-MLM) comprised of a dense retrieval model is introduced, enabling MLM to adapt swiftly to domain-specific entities for the NEC task. A series of experiments conducted on the AISHELL-1 and Homophone datasets confirm the effectiveness of our modeling approach. DANCER outperforms a strong baseline, the phonetic edit-distance-based NEC model (PED-NEC), by a character error rate (CER) reduction of about 7% relatively on AISHELL-1 for named entities. More notably, when tested on Homophone that contain named entities of high phonetic confusion, DANCER offers a more pronounced CER reduction of 46% relatively over PED-NEC for named entities.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [150]
标题:  S+t-SNE - Bringing dimensionality reduction to data streams
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17643
作者:  Pedro C. Vieira,  João P. Montrezol,  João T. Vieira,  João Gama
备注:  This preprint has not undergone peer review or any post-submission improvements or corrections. We will soon add a link to the final version of this contribution that underwent peer-review and post-acceptance improvements and was presented at IDA2024 (this https URL)
Abstract:We present S+t-SNE, an adaptation of the t-SNE algorithm designed to handle infinite data streams. The core idea behind S+t-SNE is to update the t-SNE embedding incrementally as new data arrives, ensuring scalability and adaptability to handle streaming scenarios. By selecting the most important points at each step, the algorithm ensures scalability while keeping informative visualisations. Employing a blind method for drift management adjusts the embedding space, facilitating continuous visualisation of evolving data dynamics. Our experimental evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of S+t-SNE. The results highlight its ability to capture patterns in a streaming scenario. We hope our approach offers researchers and practitioners a real-time tool for understanding and interpreting high-dimensional data.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [151]
标题:  REFeREE: A REference-FREE Model-Based Metric for Text Simplification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17640
作者:  Yichen Huang,  Ekaterina Kochmar
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Text simplification lacks a universal standard of quality, and annotated reference simplifications are scarce and costly. We propose to alleviate such limitations by introducing REFeREE, a reference-free model-based metric with a 3-stage curriculum. REFeREE leverages an arbitrarily scalable pretraining stage and can be applied to any quality standard as long as a small number of human annotations are available. Our experiments show that our metric outperforms existing reference-based metrics in predicting overall ratings and reaches competitive and consistent performance in predicting specific ratings while requiring no reference simplifications at inference time.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [152]
标题:  Learning with Unreliability: Fast Few-shot Voxel Radiance Fields with  Relative Geometric Consistency
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17638
作者:  Yingjie Xu,  Bangzhen Liu,  Hao Tang,  Bailin Deng,  Shengfeng He
备注:  CVPR 2024 final version
Abstract:We propose a voxel-based optimization framework, ReVoRF, for few-shot radiance fields that strategically address the unreliability in pseudo novel view synthesis. Our method pivots on the insight that relative depth relationships within neighboring regions are more reliable than the absolute color values in disoccluded areas. Consequently, we devise a bilateral geometric consistency loss that carefully navigates the trade-off between color fidelity and geometric accuracy in the context of depth consistency for uncertain regions. Moreover, we present a reliability-guided learning strategy to discern and utilize the variable quality across synthesized views, complemented by a reliability-aware voxel smoothing algorithm that smoothens the transition between reliable and unreliable data patches. Our approach allows for a more nuanced use of all available data, promoting enhanced learning from regions previously considered unsuitable for high-quality reconstruction. Extensive experiments across diverse datasets reveal that our approach attains significant gains in efficiency and accuracy, delivering rendering speeds of 3 FPS, 7 mins to train a $360^\circ$ scene, and a 5\% improvement in PSNR over existing few-shot methods. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [153]
标题:  PeersimGym: An Environment for Solving the Task Offloading Problem with  Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17637
作者:  Frederico Metelo,  Stevo Racković,  Pedro Ákos,  Cláudia Soares
备注:  
Abstract:Task offloading, crucial for balancing computational loads across devices in networks such as the Internet of Things, poses significant optimization challenges, including minimizing latency and energy usage under strict communication and storage constraints. While traditional optimization falls short in scalability; and heuristic approaches lack in achieving optimal outcomes, Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers a promising avenue by enabling the learning of optimal offloading strategies through iterative interactions. However, the efficacy of RL hinges on access to rich datasets and custom-tailored, realistic training environments. To address this, we introduce PeersimGym, an open-source, customizable simulation environment tailored for developing and optimizing task offloading strategies within computational networks. PeersimGym supports a wide range of network topologies and computational constraints and integrates a \textit{PettingZoo}-based interface for RL agent deployment in both solo and multi-agent setups. Furthermore, we demonstrate the utility of the environment through experiments with Deep Reinforcement Learning agents, showcasing the potential of RL-based approaches to significantly enhance offloading strategies in distributed computing settings. PeersimGym thus bridges the gap between theoretical RL models and their practical applications, paving the way for advancements in efficient task offloading methodologies.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [154]
标题:  Mix-Initiative Response Generation with Dynamic Prefix Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17636
作者:  Yuxiang Nie,  Heyan Huang,  Xian-Ling Mao,  Lizi Liao
备注:  Accepted to the main conference of NAACL 2024
Abstract:Mixed initiative serves as one of the key factors in controlling conversation directions. For a speaker, responding passively or leading proactively would result in rather different responses. However, most dialogue systems focus on training a holistic response generation model without any distinction among different initiatives. It leads to the cross-contamination problem, where the model confuses different initiatives and generates inappropriate responses. Moreover, obtaining plenty of human annotations for initiative labels can be expensive. To address this issue, we propose a general mix-Initiative Dynamic Prefix Tuning framework (IDPT) to decouple different initiatives from the generation model, which learns initiative-aware prefixes in both supervised and unsupervised settings. Specifically, IDPT decouples initiative factors into different prefix parameters and uses the attention mechanism to adjust the selection of initiatives in guiding generation dynamically. The prefix parameters can be tuned towards accurate initiative prediction as well as mix-initiative response generation. Extensive experiments on two public dialogue datasets show that the proposed IDPT outperforms previous baselines on both automatic metrics and human evaluations. It also manages to generate appropriate responses with manipulated initiatives.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [155]
标题:  Retentive Decision Transformer with Adaptive Masking for Reinforcement  Learning based Recommendation Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17634
作者:  Siyu Wang,  Xiaocong Chen,  Lina Yao
备注:  
Abstract:Reinforcement Learning-based Recommender Systems (RLRS) have shown promise across a spectrum of applications, from e-commerce platforms to streaming services. Yet, they grapple with challenges, notably in crafting reward functions and harnessing large pre-existing datasets within the RL framework. Recent advancements in offline RLRS provide a solution for how to address these two challenges. However, existing methods mainly rely on the transformer architecture, which, as sequence lengths increase, can introduce challenges associated with computational resources and training costs. Additionally, the prevalent methods employ fixed-length input trajectories, restricting their capacity to capture evolving user preferences. In this study, we introduce a new offline RLRS method to deal with the above problems. We reinterpret the RLRS challenge by modeling sequential decision-making as an inference task, leveraging adaptive masking configurations. This adaptive approach selectively masks input tokens, transforming the recommendation task into an inference challenge based on varying token subsets, thereby enhancing the agent's ability to infer across diverse trajectory lengths. Furthermore, we incorporate a multi-scale segmented retention mechanism that facilitates efficient modeling of long sequences, significantly enhancing computational efficiency. Our experimental analysis, conducted on both online simulator and offline datasets, clearly demonstrates the advantages of our proposed method.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [156]
标题:  UADA3D: Unsupervised Adversarial Domain Adaptation for 3D Object  Detection with Sparse LiDAR and Large Domain Gaps
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17633
作者:  Maciej K Wozniak,  Mattias Hansson,  Marko Thiel,  Patric Jensfelt
备注:  
Abstract:In this study, we address a gap in existing unsupervised domain adaptation approaches on LiDAR-based 3D object detection, which have predominantly concentrated on adapting between established, high-density autonomous driving datasets. We focus on sparser point clouds, capturing scenarios from different perspectives: not just from vehicles on the road but also from mobile robots on sidewalks, which encounter significantly different environmental conditions and sensor configurations. We introduce Unsupervised Adversarial Domain Adaptation for 3D Object Detection (UADA3D). UADA3D does not depend on pre-trained source models or teacher-student architectures. Instead, it uses an adversarial approach to directly learn domain-invariant features. We demonstrate its efficacy in various adaptation scenarios, showing significant improvements in both self-driving car and mobile robot domains. Our code is open-source and will be available soon.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [157]
标题:  Data-driven Energy Consumption Modelling for Electric Micromobility  using an Open Dataset
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17632
作者:  Yue Ding,  Sen Yan,  Maqsood Hussain Shah,  Hongyuan Fang,  Ji Li,  Mingming Liu
备注:  7 pages, 5 figures, 4 tables. This manuscript has been accepted by the IEEE ITEC 2024
Abstract:The escalating challenges of traffic congestion and environmental degradation underscore the critical importance of embracing E-Mobility solutions in urban spaces. In particular, micro E-Mobility tools such as E-scooters and E-bikes, play a pivotal role in this transition, offering sustainable alternatives for urban commuters. However, the energy consumption patterns for these tools are a critical aspect that impacts their effectiveness in real-world scenarios and is essential for trip planning and boosting user confidence in using these. To this effect, recent studies have utilised physical models customised for specific mobility tools and conditions, but these models struggle with generalization and effectiveness in real-world scenarios due to a notable absence of open datasets for thorough model evaluation and verification. To fill this gap, our work presents an open dataset, collected in Dublin, Ireland, specifically designed for energy modelling research related to E-Scooters and E-Bikes. Furthermore, we provide a comprehensive analysis of energy consumption modelling based on the dataset using a set of representative machine learning algorithms and compare their performance against the contemporary mathematical models as a baseline. Our results demonstrate a notable advantage for data-driven models in comparison to the corresponding mathematical models for estimating energy consumption. Specifically, data-driven models outperform physical models in accuracy by up to 83.83% for E-Bikes and 82.16% for E-Scooters based on an in-depth analysis of the dataset under certain assumptions.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [158]
标题:  AniArtAvatar: Animatable 3D Art Avatar from a Single Image
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17631
作者:  Shaoxu Li
备注:  
Abstract:We present a novel approach for generating animatable 3D-aware art avatars from a single image, with controllable facial expressions, head poses, and shoulder movements. Unlike previous reenactment methods, our approach utilizes a view-conditioned 2D diffusion model to synthesize multi-view images from a single art portrait with a neutral expression. With the generated colors and normals, we synthesize a static avatar using an SDF-based neural surface. For avatar animation, we extract control points, transfer the motion with these points, and deform the implicit canonical space. Firstly, we render the front image of the avatar, extract the 2D landmarks, and project them to the 3D space using a trained SDF network. We extract 3D driving landmarks using 3DMM and transfer the motion to the avatar landmarks. To animate the avatar pose, we manually set the body height and bound the head and torso of an avatar with two cages. The head and torso can be animated by transforming the two cages. Our approach is a one-shot pipeline that can be applied to various styles. Experiments demonstrate that our method can generate high-quality 3D art avatars with desired control over different motions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [159]
标题:  Online Tree Reconstruction and Forest Inventory on a Mobile Robotic  System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17622
作者:  Leonard Freißmuth,  Matias Mattamala,  Nived Chebrolu,  Simon Schaefer,  Stefan Leutenegger,  Maurice Fallon
备注:  
Abstract:Terrestrial laser scanning (TLS) is the standard technique used to create accurate point clouds for digital forest inventories. However, the measurement process is demanding, requiring up to two days per hectare for data collection, significant data storage, as well as resource-heavy post-processing of 3D data. In this work, we present a real-time mapping and analysis system that enables online generation of forest inventories using mobile laser scanners that can be mounted e.g. on mobile robots. Given incrementally created and locally accurate submaps-data payloads-our approach extracts tree candidates using a custom, Voronoi-inspired clustering algorithm. Tree candidates are reconstructed using an adapted Hough algorithm, which enables robust modeling of the tree stem. Further, we explicitly incorporate the incremental nature of the data collection by consistently updating the database using a pose graph LiDAR SLAM system. This enables us to refine our estimates of the tree traits if an area is revisited later during a mission. We demonstrate competitive accuracy to TLS or manual measurements using laser scanners that we mounted on backpacks or mobile robots operating in conifer, broad-leaf and mixed forests. Our results achieve RMSE of 1.93 cm, a bias of 0.65 cm and a standard deviation of 1.81 cm (averaged across these sequences)-with no post-processing required after the mission is complete.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [160]
标题:  Technical Report: Incorporating Blogs in Pollux
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17618
作者:  Tobias Holtdirk,  Nina Smirnova
备注:  6 pages, 6 figures, technical report
Abstract:This technical report describes the incorporation of political blogs into Pollux, the Specialised Information Service (FID) for Political Science in Germany. Considering the widespread use of political blogs in political science research, we decided to include them in the Pollux search system to enhance the available information infrastructure. We describe the crawling and analyzing of the blogs and the pipeline that integrates them into the Pollux system. To demonstrate the content of the incorporated blogs, we also provide a visualization of the topics covered by the blog posts during the first three months following integration.
Subjects: Digital Libraries (cs.DL)

**编号**: [161]
标题:  "You are an expert annotator": Automatic Best-Worst-Scaling Annotations  for Emotion Intensity Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17612
作者:  Christopher Bagdon,  Prathamesh Karmalker,  Harsha Gurulingappa,  Roman Klinger
备注:  accepted for publication in NAACL 2024
Abstract:Labeling corpora constitutes a bottleneck to create models for new tasks or domains. Large language models mitigate the issue with automatic corpus labeling methods, particularly for categorical annotations. Some NLP tasks such as emotion intensity prediction, however, require text regression, but there is no work on automating annotations for continuous label assignments. Regression is considered more challenging than classification: The fact that humans perform worse when tasked to choose values from a rating scale lead to comparative annotation methods, including best-worst scaling. This raises the question if large language model-based annotation methods show similar patterns, namely that they perform worse on rating scale annotation tasks than on comparative annotation tasks. To study this, we automate emotion intensity predictions and compare direct rating scale predictions, pairwise comparisons and best-worst scaling. We find that the latter shows the highest reliability. A transformer regressor fine-tuned on these data performs nearly on par with a model trained on the original manual annotations.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [162]
标题:  Denoising Table-Text Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17611
作者:  Deokhyung Kang,  Baikjin Jung,  Yunsu Kim,  Gary Geunbae Lee
备注:  Accepted to LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:In table-text open-domain question answering, a retriever system retrieves relevant evidence from tables and text to answer questions. Previous studies in table-text open-domain question answering have two common challenges: firstly, their retrievers can be affected by false-positive labels in training datasets; secondly, they may struggle to provide appropriate evidence for questions that require reasoning across the table. To address these issues, we propose Denoised Table-Text Retriever (DoTTeR). Our approach involves utilizing a denoised training dataset with fewer false positive labels by discarding instances with lower question-relevance scores measured through a false positive detection model. Subsequently, we integrate table-level ranking information into the retriever to assist in finding evidence for questions that demand reasoning across the table. To encode this ranking information, we fine-tune a rank-aware column encoder to identify minimum and maximum values within a column. Experimental results demonstrate that DoTTeR significantly outperforms strong baselines on both retrieval recall and downstream QA tasks. Our code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [163]
标题:  MMVP: A Multimodal MoCap Dataset with Vision and Pressure Sensors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17610
作者:  He Zhang,  Shenghao Ren,  Haolei Yuan,  Jianhui Zhao,  Fan Li,  Shuangpeng Sun,  Zhenghao Liang,  Tao Yu,  Qiu Shen,  Xun Cao
备注:  CVPR2024
Abstract:Foot contact is an important cue not only for human motion capture but also for motion understanding and physically plausible motion generation. However, most of the foot-contact annotations in existing datasets are estimated by purely visual matching and distance thresholding, which results in low accuracy and coarse granularity. Even though existing multimodal datasets synergistically capture plantar pressure (foot contact) and visual signals, they are specifically designed for small-range and slow motion such as Taiji Quan and Yoga. Therefore, there is still a lack of a vision-pressure multimodal dataset with large-range and fast human motion, as well as accurate and dense foot-contact annotation. To fill this gap, we propose a Multimodal MoCap Dataset with Vision and Pressure sensors, named MMVP. MMVP provides accurate and dense plantar pressure signals synchronized with RGBD observations, which is especially useful for both plausible shape estimation, robust pose fitting without foot drifting, and accurate global translation tracking. To validate the dataset, we propose an RGBD-P SMPL fitting method and also a monocular-video-based baseline framework, VP-MoCap, for human motion capture. Experiments demonstrate that our RGBD-P SMPL Fitting results significantly outperform pure visual motion capture. Moreover, VP-MoCap outperforms SOTA methods in foot-contact and global translation estimation accuracy. We believe the configuration of the dataset and the baseline frameworks will stimulate the research in this direction and also provide a good reference for MoCap applications in various domains. Project page: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [164]
标题:  Fake or JPEG? Revealing Common Biases in Generated Image Detection  Datasets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17608
作者:  Patrick Grommelt,  Louis Weiss,  Franz-Josef Pfreundt,  Janis Keuper
备注:  
Abstract:The widespread adoption of generative image models has highlighted the urgent need to detect artificial content, which is a crucial step in combating widespread manipulation and misinformation. Consequently, numerous detectors and associated datasets have emerged. However, many of these datasets inadvertently introduce undesirable biases, thereby impacting the effectiveness and evaluation of detectors. In this paper, we emphasize that many datasets for AI-generated image detection contain biases related to JPEG compression and image size. Using the GenImage dataset, we demonstrate that detectors indeed learn from these undesired factors. Furthermore, we show that removing the named biases substantially increases robustness to JPEG compression and significantly alters the cross-generator performance of evaluated detectors. Specifically, it leads to more than 11 percentage points increase in cross-generator performance for ResNet50 and Swin-T detectors on the GenImage dataset, achieving state-of-the-art results. We provide the dataset and source codes of this paper on the anonymous website: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [165]
标题:  Fully-fused Multi-Layer Perceptrons on Intel Data Center GPUs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17607
作者:  Kai Yuan,  Christoph Bauinger,  Xiangyi Zhang,  Pascal Baehr,  Matthias Kirchhart,  Darius Dabert,  Adrien Tousnakhoff,  Pierre Boudier,  Michael Paulitsch
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents a SYCL implementation of Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs), which targets and is optimized for the Intel Data Center GPU Max 1550. To increase the performance, our implementation minimizes the slow global memory accesses by maximizing the data reuse within the general register file and the shared local memory by fusing the operations in each layer of the MLP. We show with a simple roofline model that this results in a significant increase in the arithmetic intensity, leading to improved performance, especially for inference. We compare our approach to a similar CUDA implementation for MLPs and show that our implementation on the Intel Data Center GPU outperforms the CUDA implementation on Nvidia's H100 GPU by a factor up to 2.84 in inference and 1.75 in training. The paper also showcases the efficiency of our SYCL implementation in three significant areas: Image Compression, Neural Radiance Fields, and Physics-Informed Machine Learning. In all cases, our implementation outperforms the off-the-shelf Intel Extension for PyTorch (IPEX) implementation on the same Intel GPU by up to a factor of 30 and the CUDA PyTorch version on Nvidia's H100 GPU by up to a factor 19. The code can be found at this https URL.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [166]
标题:  Interactive Identification of Granular Materials using Force  Measurements
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17606
作者:  Samuli Hynninen,  Tran Nguyen Le,  Ville Kyrki
备注:  Submitted to 2024 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS 2024)
Abstract:The ability to identify granular materials facilitates the emergence of various new applications in robotics, ranging from cooking at home to truck loading at mining sites. However, granular material identification remains a challenging and underexplored area. In this work, we present a novel interactive material identification framework that enables robots to identify a wide range of granular materials using only a force-torque sensor for perception. Our framework, comprising interactive exploration, feature extraction, and classification stages, prioritizes simplicity and transparency for seamless integration into various manipulation pipelines. We evaluate the proposed approach through extensive experiments with a real-world dataset comprising 11 granular materials, which we also make publicly available. Additionally, we conducted a comprehensive qualitative analysis of the dataset to offer deeper insights into its nature, aiding future development. Our results show that the proposed method is capable of accurately identifying a wide range of granular materials solely relying on force measurements obtained from direct interaction with the materials. Code and dataset are available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [167]
标题:  END4Rec: Efficient Noise-Decoupling for Multi-Behavior Sequential  Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17603
作者:  Yongqiang Han,  Hao Wang,  Kefan Wang,  Likang Wu,  Zhi Li,  Wei Guo,  Yong Liu,  Defu Lian,  Enhong Chen
备注:  
Abstract:In recommendation systems, users frequently engage in multiple types of behaviors, such as clicking, adding to a cart, and purchasing. However, with diversified behavior data, user behavior sequences will become very long in the short term, which brings challenges to the efficiency of the sequence recommendation model. Meanwhile, some behavior data will also bring inevitable noise to the modeling of user interests. To address the aforementioned issues, firstly, we develop the Efficient Behavior Sequence Miner (EBM) that efficiently captures intricate patterns in user behavior while maintaining low time complexity and parameter count. Secondly, we design hard and soft denoising modules for different noise types and fully explore the relationship between behaviors and noise. Finally, we introduce a contrastive loss function along with a guided training strategy to compare the valid information in the data with the noisy signal, and seamlessly integrate the two denoising processes to achieve a high degree of decoupling of the noisy signal. Sufficient experiments on real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our approach in dealing with multi-behavior sequential recommendation.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [168]
标题:  LASIL: Learner-Aware Supervised Imitation Learning For Long-term  Microscopic Traffic Simulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17601
作者:  Ke Guo,  Zhenwei Miao,  Wei Jing,  Weiwei Liu,  Weizi Li,  Dayang Hao,  Jia Pan
备注:  accepted by cvpr 2024. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2306.06401
Abstract:Microscopic traffic simulation plays a crucial role in transportation engineering by providing insights into individual vehicle behavior and overall traffic flow. However, creating a realistic simulator that accurately replicates human driving behaviors in various traffic conditions presents significant challenges. Traditional simulators relying on heuristic models often fail to deliver accurate simulations due to the complexity of real-world traffic environments. Due to the covariate shift issue, existing imitation learning-based simulators often fail to generate stable long-term simulations. In this paper, we propose a novel approach called learner-aware supervised imitation learning to address the covariate shift problem in multi-agent imitation learning. By leveraging a variational autoencoder simultaneously modeling the expert and learner state distribution, our approach augments expert states such that the augmented state is aware of learner state distribution. Our method, applied to urban traffic simulation, demonstrates significant improvements over existing state-of-the-art baselines in both short-term microscopic and long-term macroscopic realism when evaluated on the real-world dataset pNEUMA.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [169]
标题:  Coimagining the Future of Voice Assistants with Cultural Sensitivity
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17599
作者:  Katie Seaborn,  Yuto Sawa,  Mizuki Watanabe
备注:  21 pages
Abstract:Voice assistants (VAs) are becoming a feature of our everyday life. Yet, the user experience (UX) is often limited, leading to underuse, disengagement, and abandonment. Co-designing interactions for VAs with potential end-users can be useful. Crowdsourcing this process online and anonymously may add value. However, most work has been done in the English-speaking West on dialogue data sets. We must be sensitive to cultural differences in language, social interactions, and attitudes towards technology. Our aims were to explore the value of co-designing VAs in the non-Western context of Japan and demonstrate the necessity of cultural sensitivity. We conducted an online elicitation study (N = 135) where Americans (n = 64) and Japanese people (n = 71) imagined dialogues (N = 282) and activities (N = 73) with future VAs. We discuss the implications for coimagining interactions with future VAs, offer design guidelines for the Japanese and English-speaking US contexts, and suggest opportunities for cultural plurality in VA design and scholarship.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [170]
标题:  Ultrafast Adaptive Primary Frequency Tuning and Secondary Frequency  Identification for S/S WPT system
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17598
作者:  Chang Liu,  Wei Han,  Guangyu Yan,  Bowang Zhang,  Chunlin Li
备注:  11 pages,16 figures,to be published in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics
Abstract:Magnetic resonance wireless power transfer (WPT) technology is increasingly being adopted across diverse applications. However, its effectiveness can be significantly compromised by parameter shifts within the resonance network, owing to its high system quality factor. Such shifts are inherent and challenging to mitigate during the manufacturing process. In response, this article introduces a rapid frequency tuning approach. Leveraging switch-controlled capacitors (SCC) to adjust the resonance network and the primary side's operating frequency, alongside a current zero-crossing detection (ZCD) circuit for voltage-current phase determination, this method circumvents the need for intricate knowledge of WPT system parameters. Moreover, it obviates the necessity for inter-side communication for real-time identification of the secondary side resonance frequency. The swift response of SCC and two-step perturb-and-observe algorithm mitigate output disturbances, thereby expediting the frequency tuning process. Experimental validation on a 200W Series-Series compensated WPT (SS-WPT) system demonstrates that the proposed method achieves frequency recognition accuracy within 0.7kHz in less than 1ms, increasing system efficiency up to 9%.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [171]
标题:  An Exact Solution for Allocating Car Parking Spaces on Campus
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17597
作者:  Luke Oluwaseye Joel,  Sawyerr A. Babatunde,  Adewumi O. Aderemi
备注:  An International Multidiscinary Conference on Research, Development and Practices in Science, Technology, Education, Arts, Management & the Social Science (iSTEAMS). Conference Centre, University of Ibandan, Nigeria. 30 May - 01 June 2013
Abstract:All over the world, especially in the university environment, planning managers and traffic engineers are constantly faced with the problem of inadequate allocation of car parking spaces to demanded users. Users could either prefer reserved parking spaces to unreserved parking spaces or vice versa. This makes the campus parking manager to be faced with two basic problem which are: the problem of allocating the actual number of available reserved spaces to users without any conflict over the same parking space, and the problem of determining the number of parking permit to be issued for parking lot with unreserved spaces. Hence, an optimal or available solution to the problem is required. This paper investigates a model for allocating car parking spaces, adds a constraint to address the reserved parking policy in a university environment and solves the parking allocation problem using an exact solution method. The result obtained gives the value of the objective function and the optimal allocation of users to each parking lot.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [172]
标题:  On the Benefits of Over-parameterization for Out-of-Distribution  Generalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17592
作者:  Yifan Hao,  Yong Lin,  Difan Zou,  Tong Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, machine learning models have achieved success based on the independently and identically distributed assumption. However, this assumption can be easily violated in real-world applications, leading to the Out-of-Distribution (OOD) problem. Understanding how modern over-parameterized DNNs behave under non-trivial natural distributional shifts is essential, as current theoretical understanding is insufficient. Existing theoretical works often provide meaningless results for over-parameterized models in OOD scenarios or even contradict empirical findings. To this end, we are investigating the performance of the over-parameterized model in terms of OOD generalization under the general benign overfitting conditions. Our analysis focuses on a random feature model and examines non-trivial natural distributional shifts, where the benign overfitting estimators demonstrate a constant excess OOD loss, despite achieving zero excess in-distribution (ID) loss. We demonstrate that in this scenario, further increasing the model's parameterization can significantly reduce the OOD loss. Intuitively, the variance term of ID loss remains low due to orthogonality of long-tail features, meaning overfitting noise during training generally doesn't raise testing loss. However, in OOD cases, distributional shift increases the variance term. Thankfully, the inherent shift is unrelated to individual x, maintaining the orthogonality of long-tail features. Expanding the hidden dimension can additionally improve this orthogonality by mapping the features into higher-dimensional spaces, thereby reducing the variance term. We further show that model ensembles also improve OOD loss, akin to increasing model capacity. These insights explain the empirical phenomenon of enhanced OOD generalization through model ensembles, supported by consistent simulations with theoretical results.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [173]
标题:  Dual Memory Networks: A Versatile Adaptation Approach for  Vision-Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17589
作者:  Yabin Zhang,  Wenjie Zhu,  Hui Tang,  Zhiyuan Ma,  Kaiyang Zhou,  Lei Zhang
备注:  CVPR2024; Codes are available at \url{this https URL}
Abstract:With the emergence of pre-trained vision-language models like CLIP, how to adapt them to various downstream classification tasks has garnered significant attention in recent research. The adaptation strategies can be typically categorized into three paradigms: zero-shot adaptation, few-shot adaptation, and the recently-proposed training-free few-shot adaptation. Most existing approaches are tailored for a specific setting and can only cater to one or two of these paradigms. In this paper, we introduce a versatile adaptation approach that can effectively work under all three settings. Specifically, we propose the dual memory networks that comprise dynamic and static memory components. The static memory caches training data knowledge, enabling training-free few-shot adaptation, while the dynamic memory preserves historical test features online during the testing process, allowing for the exploration of additional data insights beyond the training set. This novel capability enhances model performance in the few-shot setting and enables model usability in the absence of training data. The two memory networks employ the same flexible memory interactive strategy, which can operate in a training-free mode and can be further enhanced by incorporating learnable projection layers. Our approach is tested across 11 datasets under the three task settings. Remarkably, in the zero-shot scenario, it outperforms existing methods by over 3\% and even shows superior results against methods utilizing external training data. Additionally, our method exhibits robust performance against natural distribution shifts. Codes are available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [174]
标题:  Forest-ORE: Mining Optimal Rule Ensemble to interpret Random Forest  models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17588
作者:  Haddouchi Maissae,  Berrado Abdelaziz
备注:  48 pages, 11 figures
Abstract:Random Forest (RF) is well-known as an efficient ensemble learning method in terms of predictive performance. It is also considered a Black Box because of its hundreds of deep decision trees. This lack of interpretability can be a real drawback for acceptance of RF models in several real-world applications, especially those affecting one's lives, such as in healthcare, security, and law. In this work, we present Forest-ORE, a method that makes RF interpretable via an optimized rule ensemble (ORE) for local and global interpretation. Unlike other rule-based approaches aiming at interpreting the RF model, this method simultaneously considers several parameters that influence the choice of an interpretable rule ensemble. Existing methods often prioritize predictive performance over interpretability coverage and do not provide information about existing overlaps or interactions between rules. Forest-ORE uses a mixed-integer optimization program to build an ORE that considers the trade-off between predictive performance, interpretability coverage, and model size (size of the rule ensemble, rule lengths, and rule overlaps). In addition to providing an ORE competitive in predictive performance with RF, this method enriches the ORE through other rules that afford complementary information. It also enables monitoring of the rule selection process and delivers various metrics that can be used to generate a graphical representation of the final model. This framework is illustrated through an example, and its robustness is assessed through 36 benchmark datasets. A comparative analysis of well-known methods shows that Forest-ORE provides an excellent trade-off between predictive performance, interpretability coverage, and model size.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [175]
标题:  Parameterized Analysis of Bribery in Challenge the Champ Tournaments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17587
作者:  Juhi Chaudhary,  Hendrik Molter,  Meirav Zehavi
备注:  
Abstract:Challenge the champ tournaments are one of the simplest forms of competition, where a (initially selected) champ is repeatedly challenged by other players. If a player beats the champ, then that player is considered the new (current) champ. Each player in the competition challenges the current champ once in a fixed order. The champ of the last round is considered the winner of the tournament. We investigate a setting where players can be bribed to lower their winning probability against the initial champ. The goal is to maximize the probability of the initial champ winning the tournament by bribing the other players, while not exceeding a given budget for the bribes. Mattei et al. [Journal of Applied Logic, 2015] showed that the problem can be solved in pseudo-polynomial time, and that it is in XP when parameterized by the number of players. We show that the problem is weakly NP-hard and W[1]-hard when parameterized by the number of players. On the algorithmic side, we show that the problem is fixed-parameter tractable when parameterized either by the number of different bribe values or the number of different probability values. To this end, we establish several results that are of independent interest. In particular, we show that the product knapsack problem is W[1]-hard when parameterized by the number of items in the knapsack, and that constructive bribery for cup tournaments is W[1]-hard when parameterized by the number of players. Furthermore, we present a novel way of designing mixed integer linear programs, ensuring optimal solutions where all variables are integers.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [176]
标题:  A new construction of modified equations for variational integrators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17585
作者:  Marcel Oliver,  Sergiy Vasylkevych
备注:  26 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:The construction of modified equations is an important step in the backward error analysis of symplectic integrator for Hamiltonian systems. In the context of partial differential equations, the standard construction leads to modified equations with increasingly high frequencies which increase the regularity requirements on the analysis. In this paper, we consider the next order modified equations for the implicit midpoint rule applied to the semilinear wave equation to give a proof-of-concept of a new construction which works directly with the variational principle. We show that a carefully chosen change of coordinates yields a modified system which inherits its analytical properties from the original wave equation. Our method systematically exploits additional degrees of freedom by modifying the symplectic structure and the Hamiltonian together.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [177]
标题:  Towards a Zero-Data, Controllable, Adaptive Dialog System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17582
作者:  Dirk Väth,  Lindsey Vanderlyn,  Ngoc Thang Vu
备注:  
Abstract:Conversational Tree Search (Väth et al., 2023) is a recent approach to controllable dialog systems, where domain experts shape the behavior of a Reinforcement Learning agent through a dialog tree. The agent learns to efficiently navigate this tree, while adapting to information needs, e.g., domain familiarity, of different users. However, the need for additional training data hinders deployment in new domains. To address this, we explore approaches to generate this data directly from dialog trees. We improve the original approach, and show that agents trained on synthetic data can achieve comparable dialog success to models trained on human data, both when using a commercial Large Language Model for generation, or when using a smaller open-source model, running on a single GPU. We further demonstrate the scalability of our approach by collecting and testing on two new datasets: ONBOARD, a new domain helping foreign residents moving to a new city, and the medical domain DIAGNOSE, a subset of Wikipedia articles related to scalp and head symptoms. Finally, we perform human testing, where no statistically significant differences were found in either objective or subjective measures between models trained on human and generated data.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [178]
标题:  SPES: Towards Optimizing Performance-Resource Trade-Off for Serverless  Functions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17574
作者:  Cheryl Lee,  Zhouruixin Zhu,  Tianyi Yang,  Yintong Huo,  Yuxin Su,  Pinjia He,  Michael R. Lyu
备注:  12 pages, accepted by ICDE 2024 (40th IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering)
Abstract:As an emerging cloud computing deployment paradigm, serverless computing is gaining traction due to its efficiency and ability to harness on-demand cloud resources. However, a significant hurdle remains in the form of the cold start problem, causing latency when launching new function instances from scratch. Existing solutions tend to use over-simplistic strategies for function pre-loading/unloading without full invocation pattern exploitation, rendering unsatisfactory optimization of the trade-off between cold start latency and resource waste. To bridge this gap, we propose SPES, the first differentiated scheduler for runtime cold start mitigation by optimizing serverless function provision. Our insight is that the common architecture of serverless systems prompts the con- centration of certain invocation patterns, leading to predictable invocation behaviors. This allows us to categorize functions and pre-load/unload proper function instances with finer-grained strategies based on accurate invocation prediction. Experiments demonstrate the success of SPES in optimizing serverless function provision on both sides: reducing the 75th-percentile cold start rates by 49.77% and the wasted memory time by 56.43%, compared to the state-of-the-art. By mitigating the cold start issue, SPES is a promising advancement in facilitating cloud services deployed on serverless architectures.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [179]
标题:  Enhancing Privacy in Federated Learning through Local Training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17572
作者:  Nicola Bastianello,  Changxin Liu,  Karl H. Johansson
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper we propose the federated private local training algorithm (Fed-PLT) for federated learning, to overcome the challenges of (i) expensive communications and (ii) privacy preservation. We address (i) by allowing for both partial participation and local training, which significantly reduce the number of communication rounds between the central coordinator and computing agents. The algorithm matches the state of the art in the sense that the use of local training demonstrably does not impact accuracy. Additionally, agents have the flexibility to choose from various local training solvers, such as (stochastic) gradient descent and accelerated gradient descent. Further, we investigate how employing local training can enhance privacy, addressing point (ii). In particular, we derive differential privacy bounds and highlight their dependence on the number of local training epochs. We assess the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm by comparing it to alternative techniques, considering both theoretical analysis and numerical results from a classification task.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [180]
标题:  Ransomware: Analysis and Evaluation of Live Forensic Techniques and the  Impact on Linux based IoT Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17571
作者:  Salko Korac,  Leandros Maglaras,  Naghmeh Moradpoor,  Bill Buchanan,  Berk Canberk
备注:  
Abstract:Ransomware has been predominantly a threat to Windows systems. But, Linux systems became interesting for cybercriminals and this trend is expected to continue. This endangers IoT ecosystems, whereas many IoT systems are based on Linux (e.g. cloud infrastructure and gateways). This paper researches how currently employed forensic techniques can be applied to Linux ransomware and evaluates the maturity as well as the impact on the system. While Windows-based ransomware predominantly uses RSA and AES for key management, a variety of approaches was identified for Linux. Cybercriminals appear to be deliberately moving away from RSA and AES to make Live forensic investigations more difficult. Linux ransomware is developed for a predefined goal and does not exploit the full potential of damage. It appears in an early stage and is expected to reach a similar potential to Windows-based malware. The results generated provided an excellent basic understanding to discuss and assess implications on the IoT industry at an early stage of development.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [181]
标题:  Piecewise Linear Expectation Analysis via $k$-Induction for  Probabilistic Programs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17567
作者:  Tengshun Yang,  Hongfei Fu,  Jingyu Ke,  Naijun Zhan,  Shiyang Wu
备注:  
Abstract:Quantitative analysis of probabilistic programs aims at deriving tight numerical bounds for probabilistic properties such as expectation and assertion probability, and plays a crucial role in the verification of probabilistic programs. Along this line of research, most existing works consider numerical bounds over the whole state space monolithically and do not consider piecewise bounds. Clearly, monolithic bounds are either conservative, or not expressive and succinct enough in general. To derive more succinct, expressive and precise numerical bounds for probabilistic properties, we propose a novel approach for synthesizing piecewise linear bounds in this work. To this end, we first show how to extract a piecewise feature w.r.t. a given quantitative property from a probabilistic program using latticed $k$-induction that captures a wide and representative class of piecewise bound functions. Second, we develop an algorithmic approach to synthesize piecewise linear upper and lower bounds from the piecewise feature, for which we show that the synthesis of piecewise linear bounds can be reduced to bilinear programming. Third, we implement our approach with the bilinear programming solver Gurobi. The experimental results indicate that our approach is capable of generating tight or even accurate piecewise linear bounds for an extensive set of benchmarks compared with the state of the art.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [182]
标题:  Aerial Robots Carrying Flexible Cables: Dynamic Shape Optimal Control  via Spectral Method Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17565
作者:  Yaolei Shen,  Chiara Gabellieri,  Antonio Franchi
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we present a model-based optimal boundary control design for an aerial robotic system composed of a quadrotor carrying a flexible cable. The whole system is modeled by partial differential equations (PDEs) combined with boundary conditions described by ordinary differential equations (ODEs). The proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) method is adopted to project the original infinite-dimensional system on a subspace spanned by orthogonal basis functions. Based on the reduced order model, nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) is implemented online to realize shape trajectory tracking of the flexible cable in an optimal predictive fashion. The proposed reduced modeling and optimal control paradigms are numerically verified against an accurate high-dimensional FDM-based model in different scenarios and the controller's superior performance is shown compared to an optimally tuned PID controller.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [183]
标题:  Task-Oriented Paraphrase Analytics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17564
作者:  Marcel Gohsen,  Matthias Hagen,  Martin Potthast,  Benno Stein
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Since paraphrasing is an ill-defined task, the term "paraphrasing" covers text transformation tasks with different characteristics. Consequently, existing paraphrasing studies have applied quite different (explicit and implicit) criteria as to when a pair of texts is to be considered a paraphrase, all of which amount to postulating a certain level of semantic or lexical similarity. In this paper, we conduct a literature review and propose a taxonomy to organize the 25~identified paraphrasing (sub-)tasks. Using classifiers trained to identify the tasks that a given paraphrasing instance fits, we find that the distributions of task-specific instances in the known paraphrase corpora vary substantially. This means that the use of these corpora, without the respective paraphrase conditions being clearly defined (which is the normal case), must lead to incomparable and misleading results.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [184]
标题:  Deep functional multiple index models with an application to SER
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17562
作者:  Matthieu Saumard,  Abir El Haj,  Thibault Napoleon
备注:  5 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:Speech Emotion Recognition (SER) plays a crucial role in advancing human-computer interaction and speech processing capabilities. We introduce a novel deep-learning architecture designed specifically for the functional data model known as the multiple-index functional model. Our key innovation lies in integrating adaptive basis layers and an automated data transformation search within the deep learning framework. Simulations for this new model show good performances. This allows us to extract features tailored for chunk-level SER, based on Mel Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCCs). We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on the benchmark IEMOCAP database, achieving good performance compared to existing methods.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Applications (stat.AP)

**编号**: [185]
标题:  A Survey on Deep Learning and State-of-the-arts Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17561
作者:  Mohd Halim Mohd Noor,  Ayokunle Olalekan Ige
备注:  
Abstract:Deep learning, a branch of artificial intelligence, is a computational model that uses multiple layers of interconnected units (neurons) to learn intricate patterns and representations directly from raw input data. Empowered by this learning capability, it has become a powerful tool for solving complex problems and is the core driver of many groundbreaking technologies and innovations. Building a deep learning model is a challenging task due to the algorithm`s complexity and the dynamic nature of real-world problems. Several studies have reviewed deep learning concepts and applications. However, the studies mostly focused on the types of deep learning models and convolutional neural network architectures, offering limited coverage of the state-of-the-art of deep learning models and their applications in solving complex problems across different domains. Therefore, motivated by the limitations, this study aims to comprehensively review the state-of-the-art deep learning models in computer vision, natural language processing, time series analysis and pervasive computing. We highlight the key features of the models and their effectiveness in solving the problems within each domain. Furthermore, this study presents the fundamentals of deep learning, various deep learning model types and prominent convolutional neural network architectures. Finally, challenges and future directions in deep learning research are discussed to offer a broader perspective for future researchers.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [186]
标题:  m3P: Towards Multimodal Multilingual Translation with Multimodal Prompt
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17556
作者:  Jian Yang,  Hongcheng Guo,  Yuwei Yin,  Jiaqi Bai,  Bing Wang,  Jiaheng Liu,  Xinnian Liang,  Linzheng Cahi,  Liqun Yang,  Zhoujun Li
备注:  COLING 2024
Abstract:Multilingual translation supports multiple translation directions by projecting all languages in a shared space, but the translation quality is undermined by the difference between languages in the text-only modality, especially when the number of languages is large. To bridge this gap, we introduce visual context as the universal language-independent representation to facilitate multilingual translation. In this paper, we propose a framework to leverage the multimodal prompt to guide the Multimodal Multilingual neural Machine Translation (m3P), which aligns the representations of different languages with the same meaning and generates the conditional vision-language memory for translation. We construct a multilingual multimodal instruction dataset (InstrMulti102) to support 102 languages. Our method aims to minimize the representation distance of different languages by regarding the image as a central language. Experimental results show that m3P outperforms previous text-only baselines and multilingual multimodal methods by a large margin. Furthermore, the probing experiments validate the effectiveness of our method in enhancing translation under the low-resource and massively multilingual scenario.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [187]
标题:  RuBia: A Russian Language Bias Detection Dataset
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17553
作者:  Veronika Grigoreva,  Anastasiia Ivanova,  Ilseyar Alimova,  Ekaterina Artemova
备注:  accepted to LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Warning: this work contains upsetting or disturbing content. Large language models (LLMs) tend to learn the social and cultural biases present in the raw pre-training data. To test if an LLM's behavior is fair, functional datasets are employed, and due to their purpose, these datasets are highly language and culture-specific. In this paper, we address a gap in the scope of multilingual bias evaluation by presenting a bias detection dataset specifically designed for the Russian language, dubbed as RuBia. The RuBia dataset is divided into 4 domains: gender, nationality, socio-economic status, and diverse, each of the domains is further divided into multiple fine-grained subdomains. Every example in the dataset consists of two sentences with the first reinforcing a potentially harmful stereotype or trope and the second contradicting it. These sentence pairs were first written by volunteers and then validated by native-speaking crowdsourcing workers. Overall, there are nearly 2,000 unique sentence pairs spread over 19 subdomains in RuBia. To illustrate the dataset's purpose, we conduct a diagnostic evaluation of state-of-the-art or near-state-of-the-art LLMs and discuss the LLMs' predisposition to social biases.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [188]
标题:  Naive Bayes-based Context Extension for Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17552
作者:  Jianlin Su,  Murtadha Ahmed,  Wenbo,  Luo Ao,  Mingren Zhu,  Yunfeng Liu
备注:  Accepted to main NAACL 2024
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promising in-context learning abilities. However, conventional In-Context Learning (ICL) approaches are often impeded by length limitations of transformer architecture, which pose challenges when attempting to effectively integrate supervision from a substantial number of demonstration examples. In this paper, we introduce a novel framework, called Naive Bayes-based Context Extension (NBCE), to enable existing LLMs to perform ICL with an increased number of demonstrations by significantly expanding their context size. Importantly, this expansion does not require fine-tuning or dependence on particular model architectures, all the while preserving linear efficiency. NBCE initially splits the context into equal-sized windows fitting the target LLM's maximum length. Then, it introduces a voting mechanism to select the most relevant window, regarded as the posterior context. Finally, it employs Bayes' theorem to generate the test task. Our experimental results demonstrate that NBCE substantially enhances performance, particularly as the number of demonstration examples increases, consistently outperforming alternative methods. The NBCE code will be made publicly accessible. The code NBCE is available at: this https URL
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [189]
标题:  Time-Optimal Flight with Safety Constraints and Data-driven Dynamics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17551
作者:  Maria Krinner,  Angel Romero,  Leonard Bauersfeld,  Melanie Zeilinger,  Andrea Carron,  Davide Scaramuzza
备注:  12 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:Time-optimal quadrotor flight is an extremely challenging problem due to the limited control authority encountered at the limit of handling. Model Predictive Contouring Control (MPCC) has emerged as a leading model-based approach for time optimization problems such as drone racing. However, the standard MPCC formulation used in quadrotor racing introduces the notion of the gates directly in the cost function, creating a multi-objective optimization that continuously trades off between maximizing progress and tracking the path accurately. This paper introduces three key components that enhance the MPCC approach for drone racing. First and foremost, we provide safety guarantees in the form of a constraint and terminal set. The safety set is designed as a spatial constraint which prevents gate collisions while allowing for time-optimization only in the cost function. Second, we augment the existing first principles dynamics with a residual term that captures complex aerodynamic effects and thrust forces learned directly from real world data. Third, we use Trust Region Bayesian Optimization (TuRBO), a state of the art global Bayesian Optimization algorithm, to tune the hyperparameters of the MPC controller given a sparse reward based on lap time minimization. The proposed approach achieves similar lap times to the best state-of-the-art RL and outperforms the best time-optimal controller while satisfying constraints. In both simulation and real-world, our approach consistently prevents gate crashes with 100\% success rate, while pushing the quadrotor to its physical limit reaching speeds of more than 80km/h.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [190]
标题:  DeepMIF: Deep Monotonic Implicit Fields for Large-Scale LiDAR 3D Mapping
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17550
作者:  Kutay Yılmaz,  Matthias Nießner,  Anastasiia Kornilova,  Alexey Artemov
备注:  8 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Recently, significant progress has been achieved in sensing real large-scale outdoor 3D environments, particularly by using modern acquisition equipment such as LiDAR sensors. Unfortunately, they are fundamentally limited in their ability to produce dense, complete 3D scenes. To address this issue, recent learning-based methods integrate neural implicit representations and optimizable feature grids to approximate surfaces of 3D scenes. However, naively fitting samples along raw LiDAR rays leads to noisy 3D mapping results due to the nature of sparse, conflicting LiDAR measurements. Instead, in this work we depart from fitting LiDAR data exactly, instead letting the network optimize a non-metric monotonic implicit field defined in 3D space. To fit our field, we design a learning system integrating a monotonicity loss that enables optimizing neural monotonic fields and leverages recent progress in large-scale 3D mapping. Our algorithm achieves high-quality dense 3D mapping performance as captured by multiple quantitative and perceptual measures and visual results obtained for Mai City, Newer College, and KITTI benchmarks. The code of our approach will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [191]
标题:  Practical Applications of Advanced Cloud Services and Generative AI  Systems in Medical Image Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17549
作者:  Jingyu Xu,  Binbin Wu,  Jiaxin Huang,  Yulu Gong,  Yifan Zhang,  Bo Liu
备注:  
Abstract:The medical field is one of the important fields in the application of artificial intelligence technology. With the explosive growth and diversification of medical data, as well as the continuous improvement of medical needs and challenges, artificial intelligence technology is playing an increasingly important role in the medical field. Artificial intelligence technologies represented by computer vision, natural language processing, and machine learning have been widely penetrated into diverse scenarios such as medical imaging, health management, medical information, and drug research and development, and have become an important driving force for improving the level and quality of medical services.The article explores the transformative potential of generative AI in medical imaging, emphasizing its ability to generate syntheticACM-2 data, enhance images, aid in anomaly detection, and facilitate image-to-image translation. Despite challenges like model complexity, the applications of generative models in healthcare, including Med-PaLM 2 technology, show promising results. By addressing limitations in dataset size and diversity, these models contribute to more accurate diagnoses and improved patient outcomes. However, ethical considerations and collaboration among stakeholders are essential for responsible implementation. Through experiments leveraging GANs to augment brain tumor MRI datasets, the study demonstrates how generative AI can enhance image quality and diversity, ultimately advancing medical diagnostics and patient care.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [192]
标题:  Decoding excellence: Mapping the demand for psychological traits of  operations and supply chain professionals through text mining
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17546
作者:  S. Di Luozzo,  A. Fronzetti Colladon,  M. M. Schiraldi
备注:  
Abstract:The current study proposes an innovative methodology for the profiling of psychological traits of Operations Management (OM) and Supply Chain Management (SCM) professionals. We use innovative methods and tools of text mining and social network analysis to map the demand for relevant skills from a set of job descriptions, with a focus on psychological characteristics. The proposed approach aims to evaluate the market demand for specific traits by combining relevant psychological constructs, text mining techniques, and an innovative measure, namely, the Semantic Brand Score. We apply the proposed methodology to a dataset of job descriptions for OM and SCM professionals, with the objective of providing a mapping of their relevant required skills, including psychological characteristics. In addition, the analysis is then detailed by considering the region of the organization that issues the job description, its organizational size, and the seniority level of the open position in order to understand their nuances. Finally, topic modeling is used to examine key components and their relative significance in job descriptions. By employing a novel methodology and considering contextual factors, we provide an innovative understanding of the attitudinal traits that differentiate professionals. This research contributes to talent management, recruitment practices, and professional development initiatives, since it provides new figures and perspectives to improve the effectiveness and success of Operations Management and Supply Chain Management professionals.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); General Economics (econ.GN); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)

**编号**: [193]
标题:  A Gaze-grounded Visual Question Answering Dataset for Clarifying  Ambiguous Japanese Questions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17545
作者:  Shun Inadumi,  Seiya Kawano,  Akishige Yuguchi,  Yasutomo Kawanishi,  Koichiro Yoshino
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Situated conversations, which refer to visual information as visual question answering (VQA), often contain ambiguities caused by reliance on directive information. This problem is exacerbated because some languages, such as Japanese, often omit subjective or objective terms. Such ambiguities in questions are often clarified by the contexts in conversational situations, such as joint attention with a user or user gaze information. In this study, we propose the Gaze-grounded VQA dataset (GazeVQA) that clarifies ambiguous questions using gaze information by focusing on a clarification process complemented by gaze information. We also propose a method that utilizes gaze target estimation results to improve the accuracy of GazeVQA tasks. Our experimental results showed that the proposed method improved the performance in some cases of a VQA system on GazeVQA and identified some typical problems of GazeVQA tasks that need to be improved.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [194]
标题:  VDSC: Enhancing Exploration Timing with Value Discrepancy and State  Counts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17542
作者:  Marius Captari,  Remo Sasso,  Matthia Sabatelli
备注:  
Abstract:Despite the considerable attention given to the questions of \textit{how much} and \textit{how to} explore in deep reinforcement learning, the investigation into \textit{when} to explore remains relatively less researched. While more sophisticated exploration strategies can excel in specific, often sparse reward environments, existing simpler approaches, such as $\epsilon$-greedy, persist in outperforming them across a broader spectrum of domains. The appeal of these simpler strategies lies in their ease of implementation and generality across a wide range of domains. The downside is that these methods are essentially a blind switching mechanism, which completely disregards the agent's internal state. In this paper, we propose to leverage the agent's internal state to decide \textit{when} to explore, addressing the shortcomings of blind switching mechanisms. We present Value Discrepancy and State Counts through homeostasis (VDSC), a novel approach for efficient exploration timing. Experimental results on the Atari suite demonstrate the superiority of our strategy over traditional methods such as $\epsilon$-greedy and Boltzmann, as well as more sophisticated techniques like Noisy Nets.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [195]
标题:  WordRobe: Text-Guided Generation of Textured 3D Garments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17541
作者:  Astitva Srivastava,  Pranav Manu,  Amit Raj,  Varun Jampani,  Avinash Sharma
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we tackle a new and challenging problem of text-driven generation of 3D garments with high-quality textures. We propose "WordRobe", a novel framework for the generation of unposed & textured 3D garment meshes from user-friendly text prompts. We achieve this by first learning a latent representation of 3D garments using a novel coarse-to-fine training strategy and a loss for latent disentanglement, promoting better latent interpolation. Subsequently, we align the garment latent space to the CLIP embedding space in a weakly supervised manner, enabling text-driven 3D garment generation and editing. For appearance modeling, we leverage the zero-shot generation capability of ControlNet to synthesize view-consistent texture maps in a single feed-forward inference step, thereby drastically decreasing the generation time as compared to existing methods. We demonstrate superior performance over current SOTAs for learning 3D garment latent space, garment interpolation, and text-driven texture synthesis, supported by quantitative evaluation and qualitative user study. The unposed 3D garment meshes generated using WordRobe can be directly fed to standard cloth simulation & animation pipelines without any post-processing.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [196]
标题:  Large Language Models Are State-of-the-Art Evaluator for Grammatical  Error Correction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17540
作者:  Masamune Kobayashi,  Masato Mita,  Mamoru Komachi
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) have been reported to outperform existing automatic evaluation metrics in some tasks, such as text summarization and machine translation. However, there has been a lack of research on LLMs as evaluators in grammatical error correction (GEC). In this study, we investigate the performance of LLMs in GEC evaluation by employing prompts designed to incorporate various evaluation criteria inspired by previous research. Our extensive experimental results demonstrate that GPT-4 achieved Kendall's rank correlation of 0.662 with human judgments, surpassing all existing methods. Furthermore, in recent GEC evaluations, we have underscored the significance of the LLMs scale and particularly emphasized the importance of fluency among evaluation criteria.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [197]
标题:  NeRF-HuGS: Improved Neural Radiance Fields in Non-static Scenes Using  Heuristics-Guided Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17537
作者:  Jiahao Chen,  Yipeng Qin,  Lingjie Liu,  Jiangbo Lu,  Guanbin Li
备注:  To appear in CVPR2024
Abstract:Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has been widely recognized for its excellence in novel view synthesis and 3D scene reconstruction. However, their effectiveness is inherently tied to the assumption of static scenes, rendering them susceptible to undesirable artifacts when confronted with transient distractors such as moving objects or shadows. In this work, we propose a novel paradigm, namely "Heuristics-Guided Segmentation" (HuGS), which significantly enhances the separation of static scenes from transient distractors by harmoniously combining the strengths of hand-crafted heuristics and state-of-the-art segmentation models, thus significantly transcending the limitations of previous solutions. Furthermore, we delve into the meticulous design of heuristics, introducing a seamless fusion of Structure-from-Motion (SfM)-based heuristics and color residual heuristics, catering to a diverse range of texture profiles. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority and robustness of our method in mitigating transient distractors for NeRFs trained in non-static scenes. Project page: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [198]
标题:  ILLUMINER: Instruction-tuned Large Language Models as Few-shot Intent  Classifier and Slot Filler
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17536
作者:  Paramita Mirza,  Viju Sudhi,  Soumya Ranjan Sahoo,  Sinchana Ramakanth Bhat
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:State-of-the-art intent classification (IC) and slot filling (SF) methods often rely on data-intensive deep learning models, limiting their practicality for industry applications. Large language models on the other hand, particularly instruction-tuned models (Instruct-LLMs), exhibit remarkable zero-shot performance across various natural language tasks. This study evaluates Instruct-LLMs on popular benchmark datasets for IC and SF, emphasizing their capacity to learn from fewer examples. We introduce ILLUMINER, an approach framing IC and SF as language generation tasks for Instruct-LLMs, with a more efficient SF-prompting method compared to prior work. A comprehensive comparison with multiple baselines shows that our approach, using the FLAN-T5 11B model, outperforms the state-of-the-art joint IC+SF method and in-context learning with GPT3.5 (175B), particularly in slot filling by 11.1--32.2 percentage points. Additionally, our in-depth ablation study demonstrates that parameter-efficient fine-tuning requires less than 6% of training data to yield comparable performance with traditional full-weight fine-tuning.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [199]
标题:  Sparse Logistic Regression with High-order Features for Automatic  Grammar Rule Extraction from Treebanks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17534
作者:  Santiago Herrera,  Caio Corro,  Sylvain Kahane
备注:  Published in LREC-Coling 2024 proceedings
Abstract:Descriptive grammars are highly valuable, but writing them is time-consuming and difficult. Furthermore, while linguists typically use corpora to create them, grammar descriptions often lack quantitative data. As for formal grammars, they can be challenging to interpret. In this paper, we propose a new method to extract and explore significant fine-grained grammar patterns and potential syntactic grammar rules from treebanks, in order to create an easy-to-understand corpus-based grammar. More specifically, we extract descriptions and rules across different languages for two linguistic phenomena, agreement and word order, using a large search space and paying special attention to the ranking order of the extracted rules. For that, we use a linear classifier to extract the most salient features that predict the linguistic phenomena under study. We associate statistical information to each rule, and we compare the ranking of the model's results to those of other quantitative and statistical measures. Our method captures both well-known and less well-known significant grammar rules in Spanish, French, and Wolof.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [200]
标题:  BVR Gym: A Reinforcement Learning Environment for Beyond-Visual-Range  Air Combat
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17533
作者:  Edvards Scukins,  Markus Klein,  Lars Kroon,  Petter Ögren
备注:  8 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Creating new air combat tactics and discovering novel maneuvers can require numerous hours of expert pilots' time. Additionally, for each different combat scenario, the same strategies may not work since small changes in equipment performance may drastically change the air combat outcome. For this reason, we created a reinforcement learning environment to help investigate potential air combat tactics in the field of beyond-visual-range (BVR) air combat: the BVR Gym. This type of air combat is important since long-range missiles are often the first weapon to be used in aerial combat. Some existing environments provide high-fidelity simulations but are either not open source or are not adapted to the BVR air combat domain. Other environments are open source but use less accurate simulation models. Our work provides a high-fidelity environment based on the open-source flight dynamics simulator JSBSim and is adapted to the BVR air combat domain. This article describes the building blocks of the environment and some use cases.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [201]
标题:  KC-GenRe: A Knowledge-constrained Generative Re-ranking Method Based on  Large Language Models for Knowledge Graph Completion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17532
作者:  Yilin Wang,  Minghao Hu,  Zhen Huang,  Dongsheng Li,  Dong Yang,  Xicheng Lu
备注:  This paper has been accepted for publication in the proceedings of LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:The goal of knowledge graph completion (KGC) is to predict missing facts among entities. Previous methods for KGC re-ranking are mostly built on non-generative language models to obtain the probability of each candidate. Recently, generative large language models (LLMs) have shown outstanding performance on several tasks such as information extraction and dialog systems. Leveraging them for KGC re-ranking is beneficial for leveraging the extensive pre-trained knowledge and powerful generative capabilities. However, it may encounter new problems when accomplishing the task, namely mismatch, misordering and omission. To this end, we introduce KC-GenRe, a knowledge-constrained generative re-ranking method based on LLMs for KGC. To overcome the mismatch issue, we formulate the KGC re-ranking task as a candidate identifier sorting generation problem implemented by generative LLMs. To tackle the misordering issue, we develop a knowledge-guided interactive training method that enhances the identification and ranking of candidates. To address the omission issue, we design a knowledge-augmented constrained inference method that enables contextual prompting and controlled generation, so as to obtain valid rankings. Experimental results show that KG-GenRe achieves state-of-the-art performance on four datasets, with gains of up to 6.7% and 7.7% in the MRR and Hits@1 metric compared to previous methods, and 9.0% and 11.1% compared to that without re-ranking. Extensive analysis demonstrates the effectiveness of components in KG-GenRe.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [202]
标题:  Design and Preliminary Evaluation of a Torso Stabiliser for Individuals  with Spinal Cord Injury
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17531
作者:  Rejin John Varghese,  Man-Yan Tong,  Isabella Szczech,  Peter Bryan,  Dario Farina,  Etienne Burdet
备注:  4 pages, 4 figures, 10 references. Submitted to IEEE EMBC 2024 conference
Abstract:Spinal cord injuries (SCIs) generally result in sensory and mobility impairments, with torso instability being particularly debilitating. Existing torso stabilisers are often rigid and restrictive. This paper presents an early investigation into a non-restrictive 1 degree-of-freedom (DoF) mechanical torso stabiliser inspired by devices such as centrifugal clutches and seat-belt mechanisms. Firstly, the paper presents a motion-capture (MoCap) and OpenSim-based kinematic analysis of the cable-based system to understand requisite device characteristics. The simulated evaluation resulted in the cable-based device to require 55-60cm of unrestricted travel, and to lock at a threshold cable velocity of 80-100cm/sec. Next, the developed 1-DoF device is introduced. The proposed mechanical device is transparent during activities of daily living, and transitions to compliant blocking when incipient fall is detected. Prototype behaviour was then validated using a MoCap-based kinematic analysis to verify non-restrictive movement, reliable transition to blocking, and compliance of the blocking.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [203]
标题:  Boosting Few-Shot Learning with Disentangled Self-Supervised Learning  and Meta-Learning for Medical Image Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17530
作者:  Eva Pachetti,  Sotirios A. Tsaftaris,  Sara Colantonio
备注:  20 pages, 4 figures, 4 tables. Submitted to Elsevier on 25 March 2024
Abstract:Background and objective: Employing deep learning models in critical domains such as medical imaging poses challenges associated with the limited availability of training data. We present a strategy for improving the performance and generalization capabilities of models trained in low-data regimes. Methods: The proposed method starts with a pre-training phase, where features learned in a self-supervised learning setting are disentangled to improve the robustness of the representations for downstream tasks. We then introduce a meta-fine-tuning step, leveraging related classes between meta-training and meta-testing phases but varying the granularity level. This approach aims to enhance the model's generalization capabilities by exposing it to more challenging classification tasks during meta-training and evaluating it on easier tasks but holding greater clinical relevance during meta-testing. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach through a series of experiments exploring several backbones, as well as diverse pre-training and fine-tuning schemes, on two distinct medical tasks, i.e., classification of prostate cancer aggressiveness from MRI data and classification of breast cancer malignity from microscopic images. Results: Our results indicate that the proposed approach consistently yields superior performance w.r.t. ablation experiments, maintaining competitiveness even when a distribution shift between training and evaluation data occurs. Conclusion: Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and wide applicability of the proposed approach. We hope that this work will add another solution to the arsenal of addressing learning issues in data-scarce imaging domains.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [204]
标题:  Detection of Deepfake Environmental Audio
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17529
作者:  Hafsa Ouajdi,  Oussama Hadder,  Modan Tailleur,  Mathieu Lagrange,  Laurie M. Heller
备注:  
Abstract:With the ever-rising quality of deep generative models, it is increasingly important to be able to discern whether the audio data at hand have been recorded or synthesized. Although the detection of fake speech signals has been studied extensively, this is not the case for the detection of fake environmental audio. We propose a simple and efficient pipeline for detecting fake environmental sounds based on the CLAP audio embedding. We evaluate this detector using audio data from the 2023 DCASE challenge task on Foley sound synthesis. Our experiments show that fake sounds generated by 44 state-of-the-art synthesizers can be detected on average with 98% accuracy. We show that using an audio embedding learned on environmental audio is beneficial over a standard VGGish one as it provides a 10% increase in detection performance. Informal listening to Incorrect Negative examples demonstrates audible features of fake sounds missed by the detector such as distortion and implausible background noise.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [205]
标题:  Multilingual Sentence-T5: Scalable Sentence Encoders for Multilingual  Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17528
作者:  Chihiro Yano,  Akihiko Fukuchi,  Shoko Fukasawa,  Hideyuki Tachibana,  Yotaro Watanabe
备注:  Accepted in LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Prior work on multilingual sentence embedding has demonstrated that the efficient use of natural language inference (NLI) data to build high-performance models can outperform conventional methods. However, the potential benefits from the recent ``exponential'' growth of language models with billions of parameters have not yet been fully explored. In this paper, we introduce Multilingual Sentence T5 (m-ST5), as a larger model of NLI-based multilingual sentence embedding, by extending Sentence T5, an existing monolingual model. By employing the low-rank adaptation (LoRA) technique, we have achieved a successful scaling of the model's size to 5.7 billion parameters. We conducted experiments to evaluate the performance of sentence embedding and verified that the method outperforms the NLI-based prior approach. Furthermore, we also have confirmed a positive correlation between the size of the model and its performance. It was particularly noteworthy that languages with fewer resources or those with less linguistic similarity to English benefited more from the parameter increase. Our model is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [206]
标题:  Equipping Sketch Patches with Context-Aware Positional Encoding for  Graphic Sketch Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17525
作者:  Sicong Zang,  Zhijun Fang
备注:  
Abstract:The drawing order of a sketch records how it is created stroke-by-stroke by a human being. For graphic sketch representation learning, recent studies have injected sketch drawing orders into graph edge construction by linking each patch to another in accordance to a temporal-based nearest neighboring strategy. However, such constructed graph edges may be unreliable, since a sketch could have variants of drawings. In this paper, we propose a variant-drawing-protected method by equipping sketch patches with context-aware positional encoding (PE) to make better use of drawing orders for learning graphic sketch representation. Instead of injecting sketch drawings into graph edges, we embed these sequential information into graph nodes only. More specifically, each patch embedding is equipped with a sinusoidal absolute PE to highlight the sequential position in the drawing order. And its neighboring patches, ranked by the values of self-attention scores between patch embeddings, are equipped with learnable relative PEs to restore the contextual positions within a neighborhood. During message aggregation via graph convolutional networks, a node receives both semantic contents from patch embeddings and contextual patterns from PEs by its neighbors, arriving at drawing-order-enhanced sketch representations. Experimental results indicate that our method significantly improves sketch healing and controllable sketch synthesis.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [207]
标题:  Provably Secure Disambiguating Neural Linguistic Steganography
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17524
作者:  Yuang Qi,  Kejiang Chen,  Kai Zeng,  Weiming Zhang,  Nenghai Yu
备注:  
Abstract:Recent research in provably secure neural linguistic steganography has overlooked a crucial aspect: the sender must detokenize stegotexts to avoid raising suspicion from the eavesdropper. The segmentation ambiguity problem, which arises when using language models based on subwords, leads to occasional decoding failures in all neural language steganography implementations based on these models. Current solutions to this issue involve altering the probability distribution of candidate words, rendering them incompatible with provably secure steganography. We propose a novel secure disambiguation method named SyncPool, which effectively addresses the segmentation ambiguity problem. We group all tokens with prefix relationships in the candidate pool before the steganographic embedding algorithm runs to eliminate uncertainty among ambiguous tokens. To enable the receiver to synchronize the sampling process of the sender, a shared cryptographically-secure pseudorandom number generator (CSPRNG) is deployed to select a token from the ambiguity pool. SyncPool does not change the size of the candidate pool or the distribution of tokens and thus is applicable to provably secure language steganography methods. We provide theoretical proofs and experimentally demonstrate the applicability of our solution to various languages and models, showing its potential to significantly improve the reliability and security of neural linguistic steganography systems.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [208]
标题:  Boosting Adversarial Training via Fisher-Rao Norm-based Regularization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17520
作者:  Xiangyu Yin,  Wenjie Ruan
备注:  This paper has been accepted to CVPR2024
Abstract:Adversarial training is extensively utilized to improve the adversarial robustness of deep neural networks. Yet, mitigating the degradation of standard generalization performance in adversarial-trained models remains an open problem. This paper attempts to resolve this issue through the lens of model complexity. First, We leverage the Fisher-Rao norm, a geometrically invariant metric for model complexity, to establish the non-trivial bounds of the Cross-Entropy Loss-based Rademacher complexity for a ReLU-activated Multi-Layer Perceptron. Then we generalize a complexity-related variable, which is sensitive to the changes in model width and the trade-off factors in adversarial training. Moreover, intensive empirical evidence validates that this variable highly correlates with the generalization gap of Cross-Entropy loss between adversarial-trained and standard-trained models, especially during the initial and final phases of the training process. Building upon this observation, we propose a novel regularization framework, called Logit-Oriented Adversarial Training (LOAT), which can mitigate the trade-off between robustness and accuracy while imposing only a negligible increase in computational overhead. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed regularization strategy can boost the performance of the prevalent adversarial training algorithms, including PGD-AT, TRADES, TRADES (LSE), MART, and DM-AT, across various network architectures. Our code will be available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [209]
标题:  MapGuide: A Simple yet Effective Method to Reconstruct Continuous  Language from Brain Activities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17516
作者:  Xinpei Zhao,  Jingyuan Sun,  Shaonan Wang,  Jing Ye,  Xiaohan Zhang,  Chengqing Zong
备注:  Accepted to NAACL 2024 main conference
Abstract:Decoding continuous language from brain activity is a formidable yet promising field of research. It is particularly significant for aiding people with speech disabilities to communicate through brain signals. This field addresses the complex task of mapping brain signals to text. The previous best attempt reverse-engineered this process in an indirect way: it began by learning to encode brain activity from text and then guided text generation by aligning with predicted brain responses. In contrast, we propose a simple yet effective method that guides text reconstruction by directly comparing them with the predicted text embeddings mapped from brain activities. Comprehensive experiments reveal that our method significantly outperforms the current state-of-the-art model, showing average improvements of 77% and 54% on BLEU and METEOR scores. We further validate the proposed modules through detailed ablation studies and case analyses and highlight a critical correlation: the more precisely we map brain activities to text embeddings, the better the text reconstruction results. Such insight can simplify the task of reconstructing language from brain activities for future work, emphasizing the importance of improving brain-to-text-embedding mapping techniques.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [210]
标题:  Random-coupled Neural Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17512
作者:  Haoran Liu,  Mingzhe Liu,  Peng Li,  Jiahui Wu,  Xin Jiang,  Zhuo Zuo,  Bingqi Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Improving the efficiency of current neural networks and modeling them in biological neural systems have become popular research directions in recent years. Pulse-coupled neural network (PCNN) is a well applicated model for imitating the computation characteristics of the human brain in computer vision and neural network fields. However, differences between the PCNN and biological neural systems remain: limited neural connection, high computational cost, and lack of stochastic property. In this study, random-coupled neural network (RCNN) is proposed. It overcomes these difficulties in PCNN's neuromorphic computing via a random inactivation process. This process randomly closes some neural connections in the RCNN model, realized by the random inactivation weight matrix of link input. This releases the computational burden of PCNN, making it affordable to achieve vast neural connections. Furthermore, the image and video processing mechanisms of RCNN are researched. It encodes constant stimuli as periodic spike trains and periodic stimuli as chaotic spike trains, the same as biological neural information encoding characteristics. Finally, the RCNN is applicated to image segmentation, fusion, and pulse shape discrimination subtasks. It is demonstrated to be robust, efficient, and highly anti-noised, with outstanding performance in all applications mentioned above.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [211]
标题:  Computer classification of linear codes based on lattice point  enumeration and integer linear programming
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17509
作者:  Sascha Kurz
备注:  9 pages
Abstract:Linear codes play a central role in coding theory and have applications in several branches of mathematics. For error correction purposes the minimum Hamming distance should be as large as possible. Linear codes related to applications in Galois Geometry often require a certain divisibility of the occurring weights. In this paper we present an algorithmic framework for the classification of linear codes over finite fields with restricted sets of weights. The underlying algorithms are based on lattice point enumeration and integer linear programming. We present new enumeration and non-existence results for projective two-weight codes, divisible codes, and additive $\mathbb{F}_4$-codes.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [212]
标题:  Correlation of Fréchet Audio Distance With Human Perception of  Environmental Audio Is Embedding Dependant
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17508
作者:  Modan Tailleur,  Junwon Lee,  Mathieu Lagrange,  Keunwoo Choi,  Laurie M. Heller,  Keisuke Imoto,  Yuki Okamoto
备注:  
Abstract:This paper explores whether considering alternative domain-specific embeddings to calculate the Fréchet Audio Distance (FAD) metric can help the FAD to correlate better with perceptual ratings of environmental sounds. We used embeddings from VGGish, PANNs, MS-CLAP, L-CLAP, and MERT, which are tailored for either music or environmental sound evaluation. The FAD scores were calculated for sounds from the DCASE 2023 Task 7 dataset. Using perceptual data from the same task, we find that PANNs-WGM-LogMel produces the best correlation between FAD scores and perceptual ratings of both audio quality and perceived fit with a Spearman correlation higher than 0.5. We also find that music-specific embeddings resulted in significantly lower results. Interestingly, VGGish, the embedding used for the original Fréchet calculation, yielded a correlation below 0.1. These results underscore the critical importance of the choice of embedding for the FAD metric design.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [213]
标题:  EL-MLFFs: Ensemble Learning of Machine Leaning Force Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17507
作者:  Bangchen Yin,  Yue Yin,  Yuda W. Tang,  Hai Xiao
备注:  12 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Machine learning force fields (MLFFs) have emerged as a promising approach to bridge the accuracy of quantum mechanical methods and the efficiency of classical force fields. However, the abundance of MLFF models and the challenge of accurately predicting atomic forces pose significant obstacles in their practical application. In this paper, we propose a novel ensemble learning framework, EL-MLFFs, which leverages the stacking method to integrate predictions from diverse MLFFs and enhance force prediction accuracy. By constructing a graph representation of molecular structures and employing a graph neural network (GNN) as the meta-model, EL-MLFFs effectively captures atomic interactions and refines force predictions. We evaluate our approach on two distinct datasets: methane molecules and methanol adsorbed on a Cu(100) surface. The results demonstrate that EL-MLFFs significantly improves force prediction accuracy compared to individual MLFFs, with the ensemble of all eight models yielding the best performance. Moreover, our ablation study highlights the crucial roles of the residual network and graph attention layers in the model's architecture. The EL-MLFFs framework offers a promising solution to the challenges of model selection and force prediction accuracy in MLFFs, paving the way for more reliable and efficient molecular simulations.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)

**编号**: [214]
标题:  Algorithmic unfolding for image reconstruction and localization problems  in fluorescence microscopy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17506
作者:  Silvia Bonettini,  Luca Calatroni,  Danilo Pezzi,  Marco Prato
备注:  
Abstract:We propose an unfolded accelerated projected-gradient descent procedure to estimate model and algorithmic parameters for image super-resolution and molecule localization problems in image microscopy. The variational lower-level constraint enforces sparsity of the solution and encodes different noise statistics (Gaussian, Poisson), while the upper-level cost assesses optimality w.r.t.~the task considered. In more detail, a standard $\ell_2$ cost is considered for image reconstruction (e.g., deconvolution/super-resolution, semi-blind deconvolution) problems, while a smoothed $\ell_1$ is employed to assess localization precision in some exemplary fluorescence microscopy problems exploiting single-molecule activation. Several numerical experiments are reported to validate the proposed approach on synthetic and realistic ISBI data.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [215]
标题:  Stability evaluation of approximate Riemann solvers using the direct  Lyapunov method
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17504
作者:  Aishwarjya Gogoi,  Jadav Chandra Mandal,  Amitabh Saraf
备注:  arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2207.06830
Abstract:The paper presents a new approach of stability evaluation of the approximate Riemann solvers based on the direct Lyapunov method. The present methodology offers a detailed understanding of the origins of numerical shock instability in the approximate Riemann solvers. The pressure perturbation feeding the density and transverse momentum perturbations is identified as the cause of the numerical shock instabilities in the complete approximate Riemann solvers, while the magnitude of the numerical shock instabilities are found to be proportional to the magnitude of the pressure perturbations. A shock-stable HLLEM scheme is proposed based on the insights obtained from this analysis about the origins of numerical shock instability in the approximate Riemann solvers. A set of numerical test cases are solved to show that the proposed scheme is free from numerical shock instability problems of the original HLLEM scheme at high Mach numbers.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [216]
标题:  DS-AL: A Dual-Stream Analytic Learning for Exemplar-Free  Class-Incremental Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17503
作者:  Huiping Zhuang,  Run He,  Kai Tong,  Ziqian Zeng,  Cen Chen,  Zhiping Lin
备注:  Accepted in AAAI 2024
Abstract:Class-incremental learning (CIL) under an exemplar-free constraint has presented a significant challenge. Existing methods adhering to this constraint are prone to catastrophic forgetting, far more so than replay-based techniques that retain access to past samples. In this paper, to solve the exemplar-free CIL problem, we propose a Dual-Stream Analytic Learning (DS-AL) approach. The DS-AL contains a main stream offering an analytical (i.e., closed-form) linear solution, and a compensation stream improving the inherent under-fitting limitation due to adopting linear mapping. The main stream redefines the CIL problem into a Concatenated Recursive Least Squares (C-RLS) task, allowing an equivalence between the CIL and its joint-learning counterpart. The compensation stream is governed by a Dual-Activation Compensation (DAC) module. This module re-activates the embedding with a different activation function from the main stream one, and seeks fitting compensation by projecting the embedding to the null space of the main stream's linear mapping. Empirical results demonstrate that the DS-AL, despite being an exemplar-free technique, delivers performance comparable with or better than that of replay-based methods across various datasets, including CIFAR-100, ImageNet-100 and ImageNet-Full. Additionally, the C-RLS' equivalent property allows the DS-AL to execute CIL in a phase-invariant manner. This is evidenced by a never-before-seen 500-phase CIL ImageNet task, which performs on a level identical to a 5-phase one. Our codes are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [217]
标题:  SeNM-VAE: Semi-Supervised Noise Modeling with Hierarchical Variational  Autoencoder
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17502
作者:  Dihan Zheng,  Yihang Zou,  Xiaowen Zhang,  Chenglong Bao
备注:  
Abstract:The data bottleneck has emerged as a fundamental challenge in learning based image restoration methods. Researchers have attempted to generate synthesized training data using paired or unpaired samples to address this challenge. This study proposes SeNM-VAE, a semi-supervised noise modeling method that leverages both paired and unpaired datasets to generate realistic degraded data. Our approach is based on modeling the conditional distribution of degraded and clean images with a specially designed graphical model. Under the variational inference framework, we develop an objective function for handling both paired and unpaired data. We employ our method to generate paired training samples for real-world image denoising and super-resolution tasks. Our approach excels in the quality of synthetic degraded images compared to other unpaired and paired noise modeling methods. Furthermore, our approach demonstrates remarkable performance in downstream image restoration tasks, even with limited paired data. With more paired data, our method achieves the best performance on the SIDD dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [218]
标题:  Variational Graph Auto-Encoder Based Inductive Learning Method for  Semi-Supervised Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17500
作者:  Hanxuan Yang,  Zhaoxin Yu,  Qingchao Kong,  Wei Liu,  Wenji Mao
备注:  
Abstract:Graph representation learning is a fundamental research issue in various domains of applications, of which the inductive learning problem is particularly challenging as it requires models to generalize to unseen graph structures during inference. In recent years, graph neural networks (GNNs) have emerged as powerful graph models for inductive learning tasks such as node classification, whereas they typically heavily rely on the annotated nodes under a fully supervised training setting. Compared with the GNN-based methods, variational graph auto-encoders (VGAEs) are known to be more generalizable to capture the internal structural information of graphs independent of node labels and have achieved prominent performance on multiple unsupervised learning tasks. However, so far there is still a lack of work focusing on leveraging the VGAE framework for inductive learning, due to the difficulties in training the model in a supervised manner and avoiding over-fitting the proximity information of graphs. To solve these problems and improve the model performance of VGAEs for inductive graph representation learning, in this work, we propose the Self-Label Augmented VGAE model. To leverage the label information for training, our model takes node labels as one-hot encoded inputs and then performs label reconstruction in model training. To overcome the scarcity problem of node labels for semi-supervised settings, we further propose the Self-Label Augmentation Method (SLAM), which uses pseudo labels generated by our model with a node-wise masking approach to enhance the label information. Experiments on benchmark inductive learning graph datasets verify that our proposed model archives promising results on node classification with particular superiority under semi-supervised learning settings.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [219]
标题:  Sharing the Cost of Success: A Game for Evaluating and Learning  Collaborative Multi-Agent Instruction Giving and Following Policies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17497
作者:  Philipp Sadler,  Sherzod Hakimov,  David Schlangen
备注:  9 pages, Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:In collaborative goal-oriented settings, the participants are not only interested in achieving a successful outcome, but do also implicitly negotiate the effort they put into the interaction (by adapting to each other). In this work, we propose a challenging interactive reference game that requires two players to coordinate on vision and language observations. The learning signal in this game is a score (given after playing) that takes into account the achieved goal and the players' assumed efforts during the interaction. We show that a standard Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) setup achieves a high success rate when bootstrapped with heuristic partner behaviors that implement insights from the analysis of human-human interactions. And we find that a pairing of neural partners indeed reduces the measured joint effort when playing together repeatedly. However, we observe that in comparison to a reasonable heuristic pairing there is still room for improvement -- which invites further research in the direction of cost-sharing in collaborative interactions.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [220]
标题:  Dr.Hair: Reconstructing Scalp-Connected Hair Strands without  Pre-training via Differentiable Rendering of Line Segments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17496
作者:  Yusuke Takimoto,  Hikari Takehara,  Hiroyuki Sato,  Zihao Zhu,  Bo Zheng
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:In the film and gaming industries, achieving a realistic hair appearance typically involves the use of strands originating from the scalp. However, reconstructing these strands from observed surface images of hair presents significant challenges. The difficulty in acquiring Ground Truth (GT) data has led state-of-the-art learning-based methods to rely on pre-training with manually prepared synthetic CG data. This process is not only labor-intensive and costly but also introduces complications due to the domain gap when compared to real-world data. In this study, we propose an optimization-based approach that eliminates the need for pre-training. Our method represents hair strands as line segments growing from the scalp and optimizes them using a novel differentiable rendering algorithm. To robustly optimize a substantial number of slender explicit geometries, we introduce 3D orientation estimation utilizing global optimization, strand initialization based on Laplace's equation, and reparameterization that leverages geometric connectivity and spatial proximity. Unlike existing optimization-based methods, our method is capable of reconstructing internal hair flow in an absolute direction. Our method exhibits robust and accurate inverse rendering, surpassing the quality of existing methods and significantly improving processing speed.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [221]
标题:  FaultGuard: A Generative Approach to Resilient Fault Prediction in Smart  Electrical Grids
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17494
作者:  Emad Efatinasab,  Francesco Marchiori,  Alessandro Brighente,  Mirco Rampazzo,  Mauro Conti
备注:  
Abstract:Predicting and classifying faults in electricity networks is crucial for uninterrupted provision and keeping maintenance costs at a minimum. Thanks to the advancements in the field provided by the smart grid, several data-driven approaches have been proposed in the literature to tackle fault prediction tasks. Implementing these systems brought several improvements, such as optimal energy consumption and quick restoration. Thus, they have become an essential component of the smart grid. However, the robustness and security of these systems against adversarial attacks have not yet been extensively investigated. These attacks can impair the whole grid and cause additional damage to the infrastructure, deceiving fault detection systems and disrupting restoration. In this paper, we present FaultGuard, the first framework for fault type and zone classification resilient to adversarial attacks. To ensure the security of our system, we employ an Anomaly Detection System (ADS) leveraging a novel Generative Adversarial Network training layer to identify attacks. Furthermore, we propose a low-complexity fault prediction model and an online adversarial training technique to enhance robustness. We comprehensively evaluate the framework's performance against various adversarial attacks using the IEEE13-AdvAttack dataset, which constitutes the state-of-the-art for resilient fault prediction benchmarking. Our model outclasses the state-of-the-art even without considering adversaries, with an accuracy of up to 0.958. Furthermore, our ADS shows attack detection capabilities with an accuracy of up to 1.000. Finally, we demonstrate how our novel training layers drastically increase performances across the whole framework, with a mean increase of 154% in ADS accuracy and 118% in model accuracy.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [222]
标题:  DGoT: Dynamic Graph of Thoughts for Scientific Abstract Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17491
作者:  Xinyu Ning,  Yutong Zhao,  Yitong Liu,  Hongwen Yang
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:The method of training language models based on domain datasets has obtained significant achievements in the task of generating scientific paper abstracts. However, such models face problems of generalization and expensive training costs. The use of large language models (LLMs) to solve the task of generating paper abstracts saves the cost of model training. However, due to the hallucination problem of LLM, it is often necessary to improve the reliability of the results through multi-round query prompt approach such as Graph of Thoughts (GoT), which also brings additional reasoning costs. In this paper, we propose a Dynamic Graph of Thought (DGoT). It not only inherits the advantages of the existing GoT prompt approach, but also dynamically adjust the graph structure according to data characteristics while reducing model reasoning cost. Experimental results show that our method's cost-effectiveness in abstract generation tasks is only 43.7% to 56.4% of other multi-round query prompt approaches. Our code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [223]
标题:  KDMCSE: Knowledge Distillation Multimodal Sentence Embeddings with  Adaptive Angular margin Contrastive Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17486
作者:  Cong-Duy Nguyen,  Thong Nguyen,  Xiaobao Wu,  Anh Tuan Luu
备注:  Accepted to NAACL 2024
Abstract:Previous work on multimodal sentence embedding has proposed multimodal contrastive learning and achieved promising results. However, by taking the rest of the batch as negative samples without reviewing when forming contrastive pairs, those studies encountered many suspicious and noisy negative examples, significantly affecting the methods' overall performance. In this work, we propose KDMCSE (Knowledge Distillation Multimodal contrastive learning of Sentence Embeddings), a novel approach that enhances the discrimination and generalizability of multimodal representation and inherits the knowledge from the teacher model to learn the difference between positive and negative instances and via that, can detect noisy and wrong negative samples effectively before they are calculated in the contrastive objective. Furthermore, to overcome the limitation of modeling the variation within negative pairs, we introduce a new contrastive objective, AdapACSE (Adaptive Angular Margin Supervised Contrastive Learning for Multimodal sentence embeddings), that enhances the discriminative representation by strengthening the margin within the angular space while capturing varying semantics within the negative. Experimental results on widely used Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [224]
标题:  Capacity Provisioning Motivated Online Non-Convex Optimization Problem  with Memory and Switching Cost
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17480
作者:  Rahul Vaze,  Jayakrishnan Nair
备注:  
Abstract:An online non-convex optimization problem is considered where the goal is to minimize the flow time (total delay) of a set of jobs by modulating the number of active servers, but with a switching cost associated with changing the number of active servers over time. Each job can be processed by at most one fixed speed server at any time. Compared to the usual online convex optimization (OCO) problem with switching cost, the objective function considered is non-convex and more importantly, at each time, it depends on all past decisions and not just the present one. Both worst-case and stochastic inputs are considered; for both cases, competitive algorithms are derived.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [225]
标题:  Natural Language Requirements Testability Measurement Based on  Requirement Smells
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17479
作者:  Morteza Zakeri-Nasrabadi,  Saeed Parsa
备注:  45 pages, 16 figures, and 13 tables; submitted as a journal paper
Abstract:Requirements form the basis for defining software systems' obligations and tasks. Testable requirements help prevent failures, reduce maintenance costs, and make it easier to perform acceptance tests. However, despite the importance of measuring and quantifying requirements testability, no automatic approach for measuring requirements testability has been proposed based on the requirements smells, which are at odds with the requirements testability. This paper presents a mathematical model to evaluate and rank the natural language requirements testability based on an extensive set of nine requirements smells, detected automatically, and acceptance test efforts determined by requirement length and its application domain. Most of the smells stem from uncountable adjectives, context-sensitive, and ambiguous words. A comprehensive dictionary is required to detect such words. We offer a neural word-embedding technique to generate such a dictionary automatically. Using the dictionary, we could automatically detect Polysemy smell (domain-specific ambiguity) for the first time in 10 application domains. Our empirical study on nearly 1000 software requirements from six well-known industrial and academic projects demonstrates that the proposed smell detection approach outperforms Smella, a state-of-the-art tool, in detecting requirements smells. The precision and recall of smell detection are improved with an average of 0.03 and 0.33, respectively, compared to the state-of-the-art. The proposed requirement testability model measures the testability of 985 requirements with a mean absolute error of 0.12 and a mean squared error of 0.03, demonstrating the model's potential for practical use.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [226]
标题:  DiffGaze: A Diffusion Model for Continuous Gaze Sequence Generation on  360° Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17477
作者:  Chuhan Jiao,  Yao Wang,  Guanhua Zhang,  Mihai Bâce,  Zhiming Hu,  Andreas Bulling
备注:  
Abstract:We present DiffGaze, a novel method for generating realistic and diverse continuous human gaze sequences on 360° images based on a conditional score-based denoising diffusion model. Generating human gaze on 360° images is important for various human-computer interaction and computer graphics applications, e.g. for creating large-scale eye tracking datasets or for realistic animation of virtual humans. However, existing methods are limited to predicting discrete fixation sequences or aggregated saliency maps, thereby neglecting crucial parts of natural gaze behaviour. Our method uses features extracted from 360° images as condition and uses two transformers to model the temporal and spatial dependencies of continuous human gaze. We evaluate DiffGaze on two 360° image benchmarks for gaze sequence generation as well as scanpath prediction and saliency prediction. Our evaluations show that DiffGaze outperforms state-of-the-art methods on all tasks on both benchmarks. We also report a 21-participant user study showing that our method generates gaze sequences that are indistinguishable from real human sequences.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [227]
标题:  Document Set Expansion with Positive-Unlabelled Learning Using  Intractable Density Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17473
作者:  Haiyang Zhang,  Qiuyi Chen,  Yuanjie Zou,  Yushan Pan,  Jia Wang,  Mark Stevenson
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2401.11145
Abstract:The Document Set Expansion (DSE) task involves identifying relevant documents from large collections based on a limited set of example documents. Previous research has highlighted Positive and Unlabeled (PU) learning as a promising approach for this task. However, most PU methods rely on the unrealistic assumption of knowing the class prior for positive samples in the collection. To address this limitation, this paper introduces a novel PU learning framework that utilizes intractable density estimation models. Experiments conducted on PubMed and Covid datasets in a transductive setting showcase the effectiveness of the proposed method for DSE. Code is available from this https URL.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [228]
标题:  A Unified Kernel for Neural Network Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17467
作者:  Shao-Qun Zhang,  Zong-Yi Chen,  Yong-Ming Tian,  Xun Lu
备注:  
Abstract:Past decades have witnessed a great interest in the distinction and connection between neural network learning and kernel learning. Recent advancements have made theoretical progress in connecting infinite-wide neural networks and Gaussian processes. Two predominant approaches have emerged: the Neural Network Gaussian Process (NNGP) and the Neural Tangent Kernel (NTK). The former, rooted in Bayesian inference, represents a zero-order kernel, while the latter, grounded in the tangent space of gradient descents, is a first-order kernel. In this paper, we present the Unified Neural Kernel (UNK), which characterizes the learning dynamics of neural networks with gradient descents and parameter initialization. The proposed UNK kernel maintains the limiting properties of both NNGP and NTK, exhibiting behaviors akin to NTK with a finite learning step and converging to NNGP as the learning step approaches infinity. Besides, we also theoretically characterize the uniform tightness and learning convergence of the UNK kernel, providing comprehensive insights into this unified kernel. Experimental results underscore the effectiveness of our proposed method.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [229]
标题:  Green HPC: An analysis of the domain based on Top500
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17466
作者:  Abdessalam Benhari (LIG, DATAMOVE ),  Denis Trystram (UGA, DATAMOVE ),  Fanny Dufossé (DATAMOVE),  Yves Denneulin,  Frédéric Desprez
备注:  
Abstract:The demand in computing power has never stopped growing over the years. Today, the performance of the most powerful systems exceeds the exascale and the number of petascale systems continues to grow. Unfortunately, this growth also goes hand in hand with ever-increasing energy costs, which in turn means a significant carbon footprint. In view of the environmental crisis, this paper intents to look at the often hidden issue of energy consumption of HPC systems. As it is not easy to access the data of the constructors, we then consider the Top500 as the tip of the iceberg to identify the trends of the whole domain.The objective of this work is to analyze Top500 and Green500 data from several perspectives in order to identify the dynamic of the domain regarding its environmental impact. The contributions are to take stock of the empirical laws governing the evolution of HPC computing systems both from the performance and energy perspectives, to analyze the most relevant data for developing the performance and energy efficiency of large-scale computing systems, to put these analyses into perspective with effects and impacts (lifespan of the HPC systems) and finally to derive a predictive model for the weight of HPC sector within the horizon 2030.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [230]
标题:  LaRE^2: Latent Reconstruction Error Based Method for Diffusion-Generated  Image Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17465
作者:  Yunpeng Luo,  Junlong Du,  Ke Yan,  Shouhong Ding
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:The evolution of Diffusion Models has dramatically improved image generation quality, making it increasingly difficult to differentiate between real and generated images. This development, while impressive, also raises significant privacy and security concerns. In response to this, we propose a novel Latent REconstruction error guided feature REfinement method (LaRE^2) for detecting the diffusion-generated images. We come up with the Latent Reconstruction Error (LaRE), the first reconstruction-error based feature in the latent space for generated image detection. LaRE surpasses existing methods in terms of feature extraction efficiency while preserving crucial cues required to differentiate between the real and the fake. To exploit LaRE, we propose an Error-Guided feature REfinement module (EGRE), which can refine the image feature guided by LaRE to enhance the discriminativeness of the feature. Our EGRE utilizes an align-then-refine mechanism, which effectively refines the image feature for generated-image detection from both spatial and channel perspectives. Extensive experiments on the large-scale GenImage benchmark demonstrate the superiority of our LaRE^2, which surpasses the best SoTA method by up to 11.9%/12.1% average ACC/AP across 8 different image generators. LaRE also surpasses existing methods in terms of feature extraction cost, delivering an impressive speed enhancement of 8 times.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [231]
标题:  High-Power, Flexible, Robust Hand: Development of Musculoskeletal Hand  Using Machined Springs and Realization of Self-Weight Supporting Motion with  Humanoid
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17459
作者:  Shogo Makino,  Kento Kawaharazuka,  Masaya Kawamura,  Yuki Asano,  Kei Okada,  Masayuki Inaba
备注:  accepted at IROS2017
Abstract:Human can not only support their body during standing or walking, but also support them by hand, so that they can dangle a bar and others. But most humanoid robots support their body only in the foot and they use their hand just to manipulate objects because their hands are too weak to support their body. Strong hands are supposed to enable humanoid robots to act in much broader scene. Therefore, we developed new life-size five-fingered hand that can support the body of life-size humanoid robot. It is tendon-driven and underactuated hand and actuators in forearms produce large gripping force. This hand has flexible joints using machined springs, which can be designed integrally with the attachment. Thus, it has both structural strength and impact resistance in spite of small size. As other characteristics, this hand has force sensors to measure external force and the fingers can be flexed along objects though the number of actuators to flex fingers is less than that of fingers. We installed the developed hand on musculoskeletal humanoid "Kengoro" and achieved two self-weight supporting motions: push-up motion and dangling motion.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [232]
标题:  Expectations Versus Reality: Evaluating Intrusion Detection Systems in  Practice
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17458
作者:  Jake Hesford,  Daniel Cheng,  Alan Wan,  Larry Huynh,  Seungho Kim,  Hyoungshick Kim,  Jin B. Hong
备注:  10 pages
Abstract:Our paper provides empirical comparisons between recent IDSs to provide an objective comparison between them to help users choose the most appropriate solution based on their requirements. Our results show that no one solution is the best, but is dependent on external variables such as the types of attacks, complexity, and network environment in the dataset. For example, BoT_IoT and Stratosphere IoT datasets both capture IoT-related attacks, but the deep neural network performed the best when tested using the BoT_IoT dataset while HELAD performed the best when tested using the Stratosphere IoT dataset. So although we found that a deep neural network solution had the highest average F1 scores on tested datasets, it is not always the best-performing one. We further discuss difficulties in using IDS from literature and project repositories, which complicated drawing definitive conclusions regarding IDS selection.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [233]
标题:  Imitating Cost-Constrained Behaviors in Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17456
作者:  Qian Shao,  Pradeep Varakantham,  Shih-Fen Cheng
备注:  Accepted to the 34th International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling (ICAPS-24)
Abstract:Complex planning and scheduling problems have long been solved using various optimization or heuristic approaches. In recent years, imitation learning that aims to learn from expert demonstrations has been proposed as a viable alternative to solving these problems. Generally speaking, imitation learning is designed to learn either the reward (or preference) model or directly the behavioral policy by observing the behavior of an expert. Existing work in imitation learning and inverse reinforcement learning has focused on imitation primarily in unconstrained settings (e.g., no limit on fuel consumed by the vehicle). However, in many real-world domains, the behavior of an expert is governed not only by reward (or preference) but also by constraints. For instance, decisions on self-driving delivery vehicles are dependent not only on the route preferences/rewards (depending on past demand data) but also on the fuel in the vehicle and the time available. In such problems, imitation learning is challenging as decisions are not only dictated by the reward model but are also dependent on a cost-constrained model. In this paper, we provide multiple methods that match expert distributions in the presence of trajectory cost constraints through (a) Lagrangian-based method; (b) Meta-gradients to find a good trade-off between expected return and minimizing constraint violation; and (c) Cost-violation-based alternating gradient. We empirically show that leading imitation learning approaches imitate cost-constrained behaviors poorly and our meta-gradient-based approach achieves the best performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [234]
标题:  Five-fingered Hand with Wide Range of Thumb Using Combination of  Machined Springs and Variable Stiffness Joints
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17452
作者:  Shogo Makino,  Kento Kawaharazuka,  Ayaka Fujii,  Masaya Kawamura,  Tasuku Makabe,  Moritaka Onitsuka,  Yuki Asano,  Kei Okada,  Koji Kawasaki,  Masayuki Inaba
备注:  accepted at IROS2018
Abstract:Human hands can not only grasp objects of various shape and size and manipulate them in hands but also exert such a large gripping force that they can support the body in the situations such as dangling a bar and climbing a ladder. On the other hand, it is difficult for most robot hands to manage both. Therefore in this paper we developed the hand which can grasp various objects and exert large gripping force. To develop such hand, we focused on the thumb CM joint with wide range of motion and the MP joints of four fingers with the DOF of abduction and adduction. Based on the hand with large gripping force and flexibility using machined spring, we applied above mentioned joint mechanism to the hand. The thumb CM joint has wide range of motion because of the combination of three machined springs and MP joints of four fingers have variable rigidity mechanism instead of driving each joint independently in order to move joint in limited space and by limited actuators. Using the developed hand, we achieved the grasping of various objects, supporting a large load and several motions with an arm.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [235]
标题:  Adaptive Line-Of-Sight guidance law based on vector fields path  following for underactuated unmanned surface vehicle
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17448
作者:  Jie Qi,  Ronghua Wang,  Nailong Wu,  Yuxin Fan,  Jigang Wang
备注:  
Abstract:The focus of this paper is to develop a methodology that enables an unmanned surface vehicle (USV) to efficiently track a planned path. The introduction of a vector field-based adaptive line-of-sight guidance law (VFALOS) for accurate trajectory tracking and minimizing the overshoot response time during USV tracking of curved paths improves the overall line-of-sight (LOS) guidance method. These improvements contribute to faster convergence to the desired path, reduce oscillations, and can mitigate the effects of persistent external disturbances. It is shown that the proposed guidance law exhibits k-exponential stability when converging to the desired path consisting of straight and curved lines. The results in the paper show that the proposed method effectively improves the accuracy of the USV tracking the desired path while ensuring the safety of the USV work.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [236]
标题:  Chain of Compression: A Systematic Approach to Combinationally Compress  Convolutional Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17447
作者:  Yingtao Shen,  Minqing Sun,  Jie Zhao,  An Zou
备注:  10 pages, 15 figures
Abstract:Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have achieved significant popularity, but their computational and memory intensity poses challenges for resource-constrained computing systems, particularly with the prerequisite of real-time performance. To release this burden, model compression has become an important research focus. Many approaches like quantization, pruning, early exit, and knowledge distillation have demonstrated the effect of reducing redundancy in neural networks. Upon closer examination, it becomes apparent that each approach capitalizes on its unique features to compress the neural network, and they can also exhibit complementary behavior when combined. To explore the interactions and reap the benefits from the complementary features, we propose the Chain of Compression, which works on the combinational sequence to apply these common techniques to compress the neural network. Validated on the image-based regression and classification networks across different data sets, our proposed Chain of Compression can significantly compress the computation cost by 100-1000 times with ignorable accuracy loss compared with the baseline model.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [237]
标题:  Incorporating Exponential Smoothing into MLP: A Simple but Effective  Sequence Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17445
作者:  Jiqun Chu,  Zuoquan Lin
备注:  12 pages, 5 tables, 3 figures
Abstract:Modeling long-range dependencies in sequential data is a crucial step in sequence learning. A recently developed model, the Structured State Space (S4), demonstrated significant effectiveness in modeling long-range sequences. However, It is unclear whether the success of S4 can be attributed to its intricate parameterization and HiPPO initialization or simply due to State Space Models (SSMs). To further investigate the potential of the deep SSMs, we start with exponential smoothing (ETS), a simple SSM, and propose a stacked architecture by directly incorporating it into an element-wise MLP. We augment simple ETS with additional parameters and complex field to reduce the inductive bias. Despite increasing less than 1\% of parameters of element-wise MLP, our models achieve comparable results to S4 on the LRA benchmark.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [238]
标题:  Touch the Core: Exploring Task Dependence Among Hybrid Targets for  Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17442
作者:  Xing Tang,  Yang Qiao,  Fuyuan Lyu,  Dugang Liu,  Xiuqiang He
备注:  
Abstract:As user behaviors become complicated on business platforms, online recommendations focus more on how to touch the core conversions, which are highly related to the interests of platforms. These core conversions are usually continuous targets, such as \textit{watch time}, \textit{revenue}, and so on, whose predictions can be enhanced by previous discrete conversion actions. Therefore, multi-task learning (MTL) can be adopted as the paradigm to learn these hybrid targets. However, existing works mainly emphasize investigating the sequential dependence among discrete conversion actions, which neglects the complexity of dependence between discrete conversions and the final continuous conversion. Moreover, simultaneously optimizing hybrid tasks with stronger task dependence will suffer from volatile issues where the core regression task might have a larger influence on other tasks. In this paper, we study the MTL problem with hybrid targets for the first time and propose the model named Hybrid Targets Learning Network (HTLNet) to explore task dependence and enhance optimization. Specifically, we introduce label embedding for each task to explicitly transfer the label information among these tasks, which can effectively explore logical task dependence. We also further design the gradient adjustment regime between the final regression task and other classification tasks to enhance the optimization. Extensive experiments on two offline public datasets and one real-world industrial dataset are conducted to validate the effectiveness of HTLNet. Moreover, online A/B tests on the financial recommender system also show our model has superior improvement.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [239]
标题:  Adaptive LiDAR-Radar Fusion for Outdoor Odometry Across Dense Smoke  Conditions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17441
作者:  Chiyun Noh,  Ayoung Kim
备注:  
Abstract:Robust odometry estimation in perceptually degraded environments represents a key challenge in the field of robotics. In this paper, we propose a LiDAR-radar fusion method for robust odometry for adverse environment with LiDAR degeneracy. By comparing the LiDAR point cloud with the radar static point cloud obtained through preprocessing module, it is possible to identify instances of LiDAR degeneracy to overcome perceptual limits. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in challenging conditions such as dense smoke, showcasing its ability to reliably estimate odometry and identify/remove dynamic points prone to LiDAR degeneracy.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [240]
标题:  An Empirical Study of ChatGPT-related projects on GitHub
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17437
作者:  Zheng Lin,  Neng Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:As ChatGPT possesses powerful capabilities in natural language processing and code analysis, it has received widespread attention since its launch. Developers have applied its powerful capabilities to various domains through software projects which are hosted on the largest open-source platform (GitHub) worldwide. Simultaneously, these projects have triggered extensive discussions. In order to comprehend the research content of these projects and understand the potential requirements discussed, we collected ChatGPT-related projects from the GitHub platform and utilized the LDA topic model to identify the discussion topics. Specifically, we selected 200 projects, categorizing them into three primary categories through analyzing their descriptions: ChatGPT implementation & training, ChatGPT application, ChatGPT improvement & extension. Subsequently, we employed the LDA topic model to identify 10 topics from issue texts, and compared the distribution and evolution trend of the discovered topics within the three primary project categories. Our observations include (1) The number of projects growing in a single month for the three primary project categories are closely associated with the development of ChatGPT. (2) There exist significant variations in the popularity of each topic for the three primary project categories. (3) The monthly changes in the absolute impact of each topic for the three primary project categories are diverse, which is often closely associated with the variation in the number of projects owned by that category. (4) With the passage of time, the relative impact of each topic exhibits different development trends in the three primary project categories. Based on these findings, we discuss implications for developers and users.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [241]
标题:  Numerical analysis of a FE/SAV scheme for a Caginalp phase field model  with mechanical effects in stereolithography
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17434
作者:  Xingguang Jin,  Kei Fong Lam,  Changqing Ye
备注:  42pages, 10figures
Abstract:In this work we propose a phase field model based on a Caginalp system with mechanical effects to study the underlying physical and chemical processes behind stereolithography, which is an additive manufacturing (3D printing) technique that builds objects in a layer-by-layer fashion by using an ultraviolet laser to solidify liquid polymer resins. Existence of weak solutions is established by demonstrating the convergence of a numerical scheme based on a first order scalar auxiliary variable temporal discretization and a finite element spatial discretization. We further establish uniqueness and regularity of solutions, as well as optimal error estimates for the Caginalp system that are supported by numerical simulations. We also present some qualitative two-dimensional simulations of the stereolithography processes captured by the model.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [242]
标题:  Robust and Scalable Model Editing for Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17431
作者:  Yingfa Chen,  Zhengyan Zhang,  Xu Han,  Chaojun Xiao,  Zhiyuan Liu,  Chen Chen,  Kuai Li,  Tao Yang,  Maosong Sun
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024 paper, 16 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Large language models (LLMs) can make predictions using parametric knowledge--knowledge encoded in the model weights--or contextual knowledge--knowledge presented in the context. In many scenarios, a desirable behavior is that LLMs give precedence to contextual knowledge when it conflicts with the parametric knowledge, and fall back to using their parametric knowledge when the context is irrelevant. This enables updating and correcting the model's knowledge by in-context editing instead of retraining. Previous works have shown that LLMs are inclined to ignore contextual knowledge and fail to reliably fall back to parametric knowledge when presented with irrelevant context. In this work, we discover that, with proper prompting methods, instruction-finetuned LLMs can be highly controllable by contextual knowledge and robust to irrelevant context. Utilizing this feature, we propose EREN (Edit models by REading Notes) to improve the scalability and robustness of LLM editing. To better evaluate the robustness of model editors, we collect a new dataset, that contains irrelevant questions that are more challenging than the ones in existing datasets. Empirical results show that our method outperforms current state-of-the-art methods by a large margin. Unlike existing techniques, it can integrate knowledge from multiple edits, and correctly respond to syntactically similar but semantically unrelated inputs (and vice versa). The source code can be found at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [243]
标题:  Java Classes with "-Er" and "-Utils" Suffixes Have Higher Complexity
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17430
作者:  Anna Sukhova,  Alexey Akhundov,  Efim Verzakov,  Yegor Bugayenko
备注:  
Abstract:In object-oriented programming languages, a belief exists that classes with -Er/-Or and -Utils suffixes are "code smells" because they take over a lot of functional responsibility, turning out to be bulky and complicated, and therefore making it more difficult to maintain the code. In order to validate this intuition, we analyzed complexity and cohesion of 13,861 Java classes from 212 unique open-source GitHub repositories. We found out that average values of Cyclomatic Complexity and Cognitive Complexity metrics are at least 2.5 times higher when suffixes are present.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [244]
标题:  Aligning Large Language Models for Enhancing Psychiatric Interviews  through Symptom Delineation and Summarization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17428
作者:  Jae-hee So,  Joonhwan Chang,  Eunji Kim,  Junho Na,  JiYeon Choi,  Jy-yong Sohn,  Byung-Hoon Kim,  Sang Hui Chu
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have accelerated their usage in various domains. Given the fact that psychiatric interviews are goal-oriented and structured dialogues between the professional interviewer and the interviewee, it is one of the most underexplored areas where LLMs can contribute substantial value. Here, we explore the use of LLMs for enhancing psychiatric interviews, by analyzing counseling data from North Korean defectors with traumatic events and mental health issues. Specifically, we investigate whether LLMs can (1) delineate the part of the conversation that suggests psychiatric symptoms and name the symptoms, and (2) summarize stressors and symptoms, based on the interview dialogue transcript. Here, the transcript data was labeled by mental health experts for training and evaluation of LLMs. Our experimental results show that appropriately prompted LLMs can achieve high performance on both the symptom delineation task and the summarization task. This research contributes to the nascent field of applying LLMs to psychiatric interview and demonstrates their potential effectiveness in aiding mental health practitioners.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [245]
标题:  Knowledge-Powered Recommendation for an Improved Diet Water Footprint
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17426
作者:  Saurav Joshi,  Filip Ilievski,  Jay Pujara
备注:  3 pages, 1 figure, AAAI'24
Abstract:According to WWF, 1.1 billion people lack access to water, and 2.7 billion experience water scarcity at least one month a year. By 2025, two-thirds of the world's population may be facing water shortages. This highlights the urgency of managing water usage efficiently, especially in water-intensive sectors like food. This paper proposes a recommendation engine, powered by knowledge graphs, aiming to facilitate sustainable and healthy food consumption. The engine recommends ingredient substitutes in user recipes that improve nutritional value and reduce environmental impact, particularly water footprint. The system architecture includes source identification, information extraction, schema alignment, knowledge graph construction, and user interface development. The research offers a promising tool for promoting healthier eating habits and contributing to water conservation efforts.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [246]
标题:  Masked Multi-Domain Network: Multi-Type and Multi-Scenario Conversion  Rate Prediction with a Single Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17425
作者:  Wentao Ouyang,  Xiuwu Zhang,  Chaofeng Guo,  Shukui Ren,  Yupei Sui,  Kun Zhang,  Jinmei Luo,  Yunfeng Chen,  Dongbo Xu,  Xiangzheng Liu,  Yanlong Du
备注:  CIKM 2023 (larger figures)
Abstract:In real-world advertising systems, conversions have different types in nature and ads can be shown in different display scenarios, both of which highly impact the actual conversion rate (CVR). This results in the multi-type and multi-scenario CVR prediction problem. A desired model for this problem should satisfy the following requirements: 1) Accuracy: the model should achieve fine-grained accuracy with respect to any conversion type in any display scenario. 2) Scalability: the model parameter size should be affordable. 3) Convenience: the model should not require a large amount of effort in data partitioning, subset processing and separate storage. Existing approaches cannot simultaneously satisfy these requirements. For example, building a separate model for each (conversion type, display scenario) pair is neither scalable nor convenient. Building a unified model trained on all the data with conversion type and display scenario included as two features is not accurate enough. In this paper, we propose the Masked Multi-domain Network (MMN) to solve this problem. To achieve the accuracy requirement, we model domain-specific parameters and propose a dynamically weighted loss to account for the loss scale imbalance issue within each mini-batch. To achieve the scalability requirement, we propose a parameter sharing and composition strategy to reduce model parameters from a product space to a sum space. To achieve the convenience requirement, we propose an auto-masking strategy which can take mixed data from all the domains as input. It avoids the overhead caused by data partitioning, individual processing and separate storage. Both offline and online experimental results validate the superiority of MMN for multi-type and multi-scenario CVR prediction. MMN is now the serving model for real-time CVR prediction in UC Toutiao.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [247]
标题:  Test-time Adaptation Meets Image Enhancement: Improving Accuracy via  Uncertainty-aware Logit Switching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17423
作者:  Shohei Enomoto,  Naoya Hasegawa,  Kazuki Adachi,  Taku Sasaki,  Shin'ya Yamaguchi,  Satoshi Suzuki,  Takeharu Eda
备注:  Accepted to IJCNN2024
Abstract:Deep neural networks have achieved remarkable success in a variety of computer vision applications. However, there is a problem of degrading accuracy when the data distribution shifts between training and testing. As a solution of this problem, Test-time Adaptation~(TTA) has been well studied because of its practicality. Although TTA methods increase accuracy under distribution shift by updating the model at test time, using high-uncertainty predictions is known to degrade accuracy. Since the input image is the root of the distribution shift, we incorporate a new perspective on enhancing the input image into TTA methods to reduce the prediction's uncertainty. We hypothesize that enhancing the input image reduces prediction's uncertainty and increase the accuracy of TTA methods. On the basis of our hypothesis, we propose a novel method: Test-time Enhancer and Classifier Adaptation~(TECA). In TECA, the classification model is combined with the image enhancement model that transforms input images into recognition-friendly ones, and these models are updated by existing TTA methods. Furthermore, we found that the prediction from the enhanced image does not always have lower uncertainty than the prediction from the original image. Thus, we propose logit switching, which compares the uncertainty measure of these predictions and outputs the lower one. In our experiments, we evaluate TECA with various TTA methods and show that TECA reduces prediction's uncertainty and increases accuracy of TTA methods despite having no hyperparameters and little parameter overhead.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [248]
标题:  InterHandGen: Two-Hand Interaction Generation via Cascaded Reverse  Diffusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17422
作者:  Jihyun Lee,  Shunsuke Saito,  Giljoo Nam,  Minhyuk Sung,  Tae-Kyun Kim
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024, project page: this https URL
Abstract:We present InterHandGen, a novel framework that learns the generative prior of two-hand interaction. Sampling from our model yields plausible and diverse two-hand shapes in close interaction with or without an object. Our prior can be incorporated into any optimization or learning methods to reduce ambiguity in an ill-posed setup. Our key observation is that directly modeling the joint distribution of multiple instances imposes high learning complexity due to its combinatorial nature. Thus, we propose to decompose the modeling of joint distribution into the modeling of factored unconditional and conditional single instance distribution. In particular, we introduce a diffusion model that learns the single-hand distribution unconditional and conditional to another hand via conditioning dropout. For sampling, we combine anti-penetration and classifier-free guidance to enable plausible generation. Furthermore, we establish the rigorous evaluation protocol of two-hand synthesis, where our method significantly outperforms baseline generative models in terms of plausibility and diversity. We also demonstrate that our diffusion prior can boost the performance of two-hand reconstruction from monocular in-the-wild images, achieving new state-of-the-art accuracy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [249]
标题:  MA4DIV: Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Search Result  Diversification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17421
作者:  Yiqun Chen,  Jiaxin Mao,  Yi Zhang,  Dehong MA,  Long Xia,  Jun Fan,  Daiting Shi,  Zhicong Cheng,  Dawei Yin
备注:  
Abstract:The objective of search result diversification (SRD) is to ensure that selected documents cover as many different subtopics as possible. Existing methods primarily utilize a paradigm of "greedy selection", i.e., selecting one document with the highest diversity score at a time. These approaches tend to be inefficient and are easily trapped in a suboptimal state. In addition, some other methods aim to approximately optimize the diversity metric, such as $\alpha$-NDCG, but the results still remain suboptimal. To address these challenges, we introduce Multi-Agent reinforcement learning (MARL) for search result DIVersity, which called MA4DIV. In this approach, each document is an agent and the search result diversification is modeled as a cooperative task among multiple agents. This approach allows for directly optimizing the diversity metrics, such as $\alpha$-NDCG, while achieving high training efficiency. We conducted preliminary experiments on public TREC datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness and potential of MA4DIV. Considering the limited number of queries in public TREC datasets, we construct a large-scale dataset from industry sources and show that MA4DIV achieves substantial improvements in both effectiveness and efficiency than existing baselines on a industrial scale dataset.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [250]
标题:  Learning to Visually Localize Sound Sources from Mixtures without Prior  Source Knowledge
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17420
作者:  Dongjin Kim,  Sung Jin Um,  Sangmin Lee,  Jung Uk Kim
备注:  Accepted at CVPR 2024
Abstract:The goal of the multi-sound source localization task is to localize sound sources from the mixture individually. While recent multi-sound source localization methods have shown improved performance, they face challenges due to their reliance on prior information about the number of objects to be separated. In this paper, to overcome this limitation, we present a novel multi-sound source localization method that can perform localization without prior knowledge of the number of sound sources. To achieve this goal, we propose an iterative object identification (IOI) module, which can recognize sound-making objects in an iterative manner. After finding the regions of sound-making objects, we devise object similarity-aware clustering (OSC) loss to guide the IOI module to effectively combine regions of the same object but also distinguish between different objects and backgrounds. It enables our method to perform accurate localization of sound-making objects without any prior knowledge. Extensive experimental results on the MUSIC and VGGSound benchmarks show the significant performance improvements of the proposed method over the existing methods for both single and multi-source. Our code is available at: this https URL
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [251]
标题:  AI Safety: Necessary, but insufficient and possibly problematic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17419
作者:  Deepak P
备注:  
Abstract:This article critically examines the recent hype around AI safety. We first start with noting the nature of the AI safety hype as being dominated by governments and corporations, and contrast it with other avenues within AI research on advancing social good. We consider what 'AI safety' actually means, and outline the dominant concepts that the digital footprint of AI safety aligns with. We posit that AI safety has a nuanced and uneasy relationship with transparency and other allied notions associated with societal good, indicating that it is an insufficient notion if the goal is that of societal good in a broad sense. We note that the AI safety debate has already influenced some regulatory efforts in AI, perhaps in not so desirable directions. We also share our concerns on how AI safety may normalize AI that advances structural harm through providing exploitative and harmful AI with a veneer of safety.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [252]
标题:  Cyclic pursuit formation control for arbitrary desired shapes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17417
作者:  Anna Fujioka,  Masaki Ogura,  Naoki Wakamiya
备注:  
Abstract:A multi-agent system comprises numerous agents that autonomously make decisions to collectively accomplish tasks, drawing significant attention for their wide-ranging applications. Within this context, formation control emerges as a prominent task, wherein agents collaboratively shape and maneuver while preserving formation integrity. Our focus centers on cyclic pursuit, a method facilitating the formation of circles, ellipses, and figure-eights under the assumption that agents can only perceive the relative positions of those preceding them. However, this method's scope has been restricted to these specific shapes, leaving the feasibility of forming other shapes uncertain. In response, our study proposes a novel method based on cyclic pursuit capable of forming a broader array of shapes, enabling agents to individually shape while pursuing preceding agents, thereby extending the repertoire of achievable formations. We present two scenarios concerning the information available to agents and devise formation control methods tailored to each scenario. Through extensive simulations, we demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed method in forming multiple shapes, including those represented as Fourier series, thereby underscoring the versatility and effectiveness of our approach.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [253]
标题:  AFDGCF: Adaptive Feature De-correlation Graph Collaborative Filtering  for Recommendations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17416
作者:  Wei Wu,  Chao Wang,  Dazhong Shen,  Chuan Qin,  Liyi Chen,  Hui Xiong
备注:  Accepted by SIGIR2024
Abstract:Collaborative filtering methods based on graph neural networks (GNNs) have witnessed significant success in recommender systems (RS), capitalizing on their ability to capture collaborative signals within intricate user-item relationships via message-passing mechanisms. However, these GNN-based RS inadvertently introduce excess linear correlation between user and item embeddings, contradicting the goal of providing personalized recommendations. While existing research predominantly ascribes this flaw to the over-smoothing problem, this paper underscores the critical, often overlooked role of the over-correlation issue in diminishing the effectiveness of GNN representations and subsequent recommendation performance. Up to now, the over-correlation issue remains unexplored in RS. Meanwhile, how to mitigate the impact of over-correlation while preserving collaborative filtering signals is a significant challenge. To this end, this paper aims to address the aforementioned gap by undertaking a comprehensive study of the over-correlation issue in graph collaborative filtering models. Firstly, we present empirical evidence to demonstrate the widespread prevalence of over-correlation in these models. Subsequently, we dive into a theoretical analysis which establishes a pivotal connection between the over-correlation and over-smoothing issues. Leveraging these insights, we introduce the Adaptive Feature De-correlation Graph Collaborative Filtering (AFDGCF) framework, which dynamically applies correlation penalties to the feature dimensions of the representation matrix, effectively alleviating both over-correlation and over-smoothing issues. The efficacy of the proposed framework is corroborated through extensive experiments conducted with four representative graph collaborative filtering models across four publicly available datasets.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [254]
标题:  The Privacy Policy Permission Model: A Unified View of Privacy Policies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17414
作者:  Maryam Majedi,  Ken Barker
备注:  23 pages + 2 pages references + 11 Pages Appendix, 19 figures,Published in teh Trasactions on Data Privacy in April 2021
Abstract:Organizations use privacy policies to communicate their data collection practices to their clients. A privacy policy is a set of statements that specifies how an organization gathers, uses, discloses, and maintains a client's data. However, most privacy policies lack a clear, complete explanation of how data providers' information is used. We propose a modeling methodology, called the Privacy Policy Permission Model (PPPM), that provides a uniform, easy-to-understand representation of privacy policies, which can accurately and clearly show how data is used within an organization's practice. Using this methodology, a privacy policy is captured as a diagram. The diagram is capable of highlighting inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the privacy policy. The methodology supports privacy officers in properly and clearly articulating an organization's privacy policy.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [255]
标题:  LM-Combiner: A Contextual Rewriting Model for Chinese Grammatical Error  Correction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17413
作者:  Yixuan Wang,  Baoxin Wang,  Yijun Liu,  Dayong Wu,  Wanxiang Che
备注:  Accepted to COLING 2024
Abstract:Over-correction is a critical problem in Chinese grammatical error correction (CGEC) task. Recent work using model ensemble methods based on voting can effectively mitigate over-correction and improve the precision of the GEC system. However, these methods still require the output of several GEC systems and inevitably lead to reduced error recall. In this light, we propose the LM-Combiner, a rewriting model that can directly modify the over-correction of GEC system outputs without a model ensemble. Specifically, we train the model on an over-correction dataset constructed through the proposed K-fold cross inference method, which allows it to directly generate filtered sentences by combining the original and the over-corrected text. In the inference stage, we directly take the original sentences and the output results of other systems as input and then obtain the filtered sentences through LM-Combiner. Experiments on the FCGEC dataset show that our proposed method effectively alleviates the over-correction of the original system (+18.2 Precision) while ensuring the error recall remains unchanged. Besides, we find that LM-Combiner still has a good rewriting performance even with small parameters and few training data, and thus can cost-effectively mitigate the over-correction of black-box GEC systems (e.g., ChatGPT).
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [256]
标题:  PCToolkit: A Unified Plug-and-Play Prompt Compression Toolkit of Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17411
作者:  Jinyi Li,  Yihuai Lan,  Lei Wang,  Hao Wang
备注:  For open-source repository, see this https URL
Abstract:Prompt compression is an innovative method for efficiently condensing input prompts while preserving essential information. To facilitate quick-start services, user-friendly interfaces, and compatibility with common datasets and metrics, we present the Prompt Compression Toolkit (PCToolkit). This toolkit is a unified plug-and-play solution for compressing prompts in Large Language Models (LLMs), featuring cutting-edge prompt compressors, diverse datasets, and metrics for comprehensive performance evaluation. PCToolkit boasts a modular design, allowing for easy integration of new datasets and metrics through portable and user-friendly interfaces. In this paper, we outline the key components and functionalities of PCToolkit. We conducted evaluations of the compressors within PCToolkit across various natural language tasks, including reconstruction, summarization, mathematical problem-solving, question answering, few-shot learning, synthetic tasks, code completion, boolean expressions, multiple choice questions, and lies recognition.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [257]
标题:  On permutation-invariant neural networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17410
作者:  Masanari Kimura,  Ryotaro Shimizu,  Yuki Hirakawa,  Ryosuke Goto,  Yuki Saito
备注:  
Abstract:Conventional machine learning algorithms have traditionally been designed under the assumption that input data follows a vector-based format, with an emphasis on vector-centric paradigms. However, as the demand for tasks involving set-based inputs has grown, there has been a paradigm shift in the research community towards addressing these challenges. In recent years, the emergence of neural network architectures such as Deep Sets and Transformers has presented a significant advancement in the treatment of set-based data. These architectures are specifically engineered to naturally accommodate sets as input, enabling more effective representation and processing of set structures. Consequently, there has been a surge of research endeavors dedicated to exploring and harnessing the capabilities of these architectures for various tasks involving the approximation of set functions. This comprehensive survey aims to provide an overview of the diverse problem settings and ongoing research efforts pertaining to neural networks that approximate set functions. By delving into the intricacies of these approaches and elucidating the associated challenges, the survey aims to equip readers with a comprehensive understanding of the field. Through this comprehensive perspective, we hope that researchers can gain valuable insights into the potential applications, inherent limitations, and future directions of set-based neural networks. Indeed, from this survey we gain two insights: i) Deep Sets and its variants can be generalized by differences in the aggregation function, and ii) the behavior of Deep Sets is sensitive to the choice of the aggregation function. From these observations, we show that Deep Sets, one of the well-known permutation-invariant neural networks, can be generalized in the sense of a quasi-arithmetic mean.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [258]
标题:  Neural Clustering based Visual Representation Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17409
作者:  Guikun Chen,  Xia Li,  Yi Yang,  Wenguan Wang
备注:  CVPR 2024. Code: this https URL
Abstract:We investigate a fundamental aspect of machine vision: the measurement of features, by revisiting clustering, one of the most classic approaches in machine learning and data analysis. Existing visual feature extractors, including ConvNets, ViTs, and MLPs, represent an image as rectangular regions. Though prevalent, such a grid-style paradigm is built upon engineering practice and lacks explicit modeling of data distribution. In this work, we propose feature extraction with clustering (FEC), a conceptually elegant yet surprisingly ad-hoc interpretable neural clustering framework, which views feature extraction as a process of selecting representatives from data and thus automatically captures the underlying data distribution. Given an image, FEC alternates between grouping pixels into individual clusters to abstract representatives and updating the deep features of pixels with current representatives. Such an iterative working mechanism is implemented in the form of several neural layers and the final representatives can be used for downstream tasks. The cluster assignments across layers, which can be viewed and inspected by humans, make the forward process of FEC fully transparent and empower it with promising ad-hoc interpretability. Extensive experiments on various visual recognition models and tasks verify the effectiveness, generality, and interpretability of FEC. We expect this work will provoke a rethink of the current de facto grid-style paradigm.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [259]
标题:  Transcribing Bengali Text with Regional Dialects to IPA using District  Guided Tokens
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17407
作者:  S M Jishanul Islam,  Sadia Ahmmed,  Sahid Hossain Mustakim
备注:  This work became the champion of the Bhashamul challenge
Abstract:Accurate transcription of Bengali text to the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is a challenging task due to the complex phonology of the language and context-dependent sound changes. This challenge is even more for regional Bengali dialects due to unavailability of standardized spelling conventions for these dialects, presence of local and foreign words popular in those regions and phonological diversity across different regions. This paper presents an approach to this sequence-to-sequence problem by introducing the District Guided Tokens (DGT) technique on a new dataset spanning six districts of Bangladesh. The key idea is to provide the model with explicit information about the regional dialect or "district" of the input text before generating the IPA transcription. This is achieved by prepending a district token to the input sequence, effectively guiding the model to understand the unique phonetic patterns associated with each district. The DGT technique is applied to fine-tune several transformer-based models, on this new dataset. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of DGT, with the ByT5 model achieving superior performance over word-based models like mT5, BanglaT5, and umT5. This is attributed to ByT5's ability to handle a high percentage of out-of-vocabulary words in the test set. The proposed approach highlights the importance of incorporating regional dialect information into ubiquitous natural language processing systems for languages with diverse phonological variations. The following work was a result of the "Bhashamul" challenge, which is dedicated to solving the problem of Bengali text with regional dialects to IPA transcription this https URL. The training and inference notebooks are available through the competition link.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [260]
标题:  The recessionary pressures of generative AI: A threat to wellbeing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17405
作者:  Jo-An Occhipinti,  Ante Prodan,  William Hynes,  Roy Green,  Sharan Burrow,  Harris A Eyre,  Adam Skinner,  Goran Ujdur,  John Buchanan,  Ian B Hickie,  Mark Heffernan,  Christine Song,  Marcel Tanner
备注:  7 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) stands as a transformative force that presents a paradox; it offers unprecedented opportunities for productivity growth while potentially posing significant threats to economic stability and societal wellbeing. Many consider generative AI as akin to previous technological advancements, using historical precedent to argue that fears of widespread job displacement are unfounded, while others contend that generative AI`s unique capacity to undertake non-routine cognitive tasks sets it apart from other forms of automation capital and presents a threat to the quality and availability of work that underpin stable societies. This paper explores the conditions under which both may be true. We posit the existence of an AI-capital-to-labour ratio threshold beyond which a self-reinforcing cycle of recessionary pressures could be triggered, exacerbating social disparities, reducing social cohesion, heightening tensions, and requiring sustained government intervention to maintain stability. To prevent this, the paper underscores the urgent need for proactive policy responses, making recommendations to reduce these risks through robust regulatory frameworks and a new social contract characterised by progressive social and economic policies. This approach aims to ensure a sustainable, inclusive, and resilient economic future where human contribution to the economy is retained and integrated with generative AI to enhance the Mental Wealth of nations.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [261]
标题:  Generalization Error Analysis for Sparse Mixture-of-Experts: A  Preliminary Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17404
作者:  Jinze Zhao,  Peihao Wang,  Zhangyang Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) represents an ensemble methodology that amalgamates predictions from several specialized sub-models (referred to as experts). This fusion is accomplished through a router mechanism, dynamically assigning weights to each expert's contribution based on the input data. Conventional MoE mechanisms select all available experts, incurring substantial computational costs. In contrast, Sparse Mixture-of-Experts (Sparse MoE) selectively engages only a limited number, or even just one expert, significantly reducing computation overhead while empirically preserving, and sometimes even enhancing, performance. Despite its wide-ranging applications and these advantageous characteristics, MoE's theoretical underpinnings have remained elusive. In this paper, we embark on an exploration of Sparse MoE's generalization error concerning various critical factors. Specifically, we investigate the impact of the number of data samples, the total number of experts, the sparsity in expert selection, the complexity of the routing mechanism, and the complexity of individual experts. Our analysis sheds light on \textit{how \textbf{sparsity} contributes to the MoE's generalization}, offering insights from the perspective of classical learning theory.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [262]
标题:  A Survey on Resource Management in Joint Communication and  Computing-Embedded SAGIN
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17400
作者:  Qian Chen,  Zheng Guo,  Weixiao Meng,  Shuai Han,  Cheng Li,  Tony Q. S. Quek
备注:  43 pages, 17 figures
Abstract:The advent of the 6G era aims for ubiquitous connectivity, with the integration of non-terrestrial networks (NTN) offering extensive coverage and enhanced capacity. As manufacturing advances and user demands evolve, space-air-ground integrated networks (SAGIN) with computational capabilities emerge as a viable solution for services requiring low latency and high computational power. Resource management within joint communication and computing-embedded SAGIN (JCC-SAGIN) presents greater complexity than traditional terrestrial networks. This complexity arises from the spatiotemporal dynamics of network topology and service demand, the interdependency of large-scale resource variables, and intricate tradeoffs among various performance metrics. Thus, a thorough examination of resource management strategies in JCC-SAGIN is crucial, emphasizing the role of non-terrestrial platforms with processing capabilities in 6G. This paper begins by reviewing the architecture, enabling technologies, and applications in JCC-SAGIN. Then, we offer a detailed overview of resource management modeling and optimization methods, encompassing both traditional optimization approaches and learning-based intelligent decision-making frameworks. Finally, we outline the prospective research directions in JCC-SAGIN.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [263]
标题:  An Open-source End-to-End Logic Optimization Framework for Large-scale  Boolean Network with Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17395
作者:  Zhen Li,  Kaixiang Zhu,  Xuegong Zhou,  Lingli Wang
备注:  5 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
Abstract:We propose an open-source end-to-end logic optimization framework for large-scale boolean network with reinforcement learning.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [264]
标题:  Natural-artificial hybrid swarm: Cyborg-insect group navigation in  unknown obstructed soft terrain
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17392
作者:  Yang Bai,  Phuoc Thanh Tran Ngoc,  Huu Duoc Nguyen,  Duc Long Le,  Quang Huy Ha,  Kazuki Kai,  Yu Xiang See To,  Yaosheng Deng,  Jie Song,  Naoki Wakamiya,  Hirotaka Sato,  Masaki Ogura
备注:  
Abstract:Navigating multi-robot systems in complex terrains has always been a challenging task. This is due to the inherent limitations of traditional robots in collision avoidance, adaptation to unknown environments, and sustained energy efficiency. In order to overcome these limitations, this research proposes a solution by integrating living insects with miniature electronic controllers to enable robotic-like programmable control, and proposing a novel control algorithm for swarming. Although these creatures, called cyborg insects, have the ability to instinctively avoid collisions with neighbors and obstacles while adapting to complex terrains, there is a lack of literature on the control of multi-cyborg systems. This research gap is due to the difficulty in coordinating the movements of a cyborg system under the presence of insects' inherent individual variability in their reactions to control input. In response to this issue, we propose a novel swarm navigation algorithm addressing these challenges. The effectiveness of the algorithm is demonstrated through an experimental validation in which a cyborg swarm was successfully navigated through an unknown sandy field with obstacles and hills. This research contributes to the domain of swarm robotics and showcases the potential of integrating biological organisms with robotics and control theory to create more intelligent autonomous systems with real-world applications.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)

**编号**: [265]
标题:  Reverse Kron reduction of Multi-phase Radial Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17391
作者:  Steven H. Low
备注:  
Abstract:We consider the problem of identifying the admittance matrix of a three-phase radial network from voltage and current measurements at a subset of nodes. These measurements are used to estimate a virtual network represented by the Kron reduction (Schur complement) of the full admittance matrix. We focus on recovering exactly the full admittance matrix from its Kron reduction, i.e., computing the inverse of Schur complement. The key idea is to decompose Kron reduction into a sequence of iterations that maintains an invariance structure, and exploit this structure to reverse each step of the iterative Kron reduction.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [266]
标题:  SSF3D: Strict Semi-Supervised 3D Object Detection with Switching Filter
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17390
作者:  Songbur Wong
备注:  
Abstract:SSF3D modified the semi-supervised 3D object detection (SS3DOD) framework, which designed specifically for point cloud data. Leveraging the characteristics of non-coincidence and weak correlation of target objects in point cloud, we adopt a strategy of retaining only the truth-determining pseudo labels and trimming the other fuzzy labels with points, instead of pursuing a balance between the quantity and quality of pseudo labels. Besides, we notice that changing the filter will make the model meet different distributed targets, which is beneficial to break the training bottleneck. Two mechanism are introduced to achieve above ideas: strict threshold and filter switching. The experiments are conducted to analyze the effectiveness of above approaches and their impact on the overall performance of the system. Evaluating on the KITTI dataset, SSF3D exhibits superior performance compared to the current state-of-the-art methods. The code will be released here.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [267]
标题:  Decoupled Pseudo-labeling for Semi-Supervised Monocular 3D Object  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17387
作者:  Jiacheng Zhang,  Jiaming Li,  Xiangru Lin,  Wei Zhang,  Xiao Tan,  Junyu Han,  Errui Ding,  Jingdong Wang,  Guanbin Li
备注:  To appear in CVPR2024
Abstract:We delve into pseudo-labeling for semi-supervised monocular 3D object detection (SSM3OD) and discover two primary issues: a misalignment between the prediction quality of 3D and 2D attributes and the tendency of depth supervision derived from pseudo-labels to be noisy, leading to significant optimization conflicts with other reliable forms of supervision. We introduce a novel decoupled pseudo-labeling (DPL) approach for SSM3OD. Our approach features a Decoupled Pseudo-label Generation (DPG) module, designed to efficiently generate pseudo-labels by separately processing 2D and 3D attributes. This module incorporates a unique homography-based method for identifying dependable pseudo-labels in BEV space, specifically for 3D attributes. Additionally, we present a DepthGradient Projection (DGP) module to mitigate optimization conflicts caused by noisy depth supervision of pseudo-labels, effectively decoupling the depth gradient and removing conflicting gradients. This dual decoupling strategy-at both the pseudo-label generation and gradient levels-significantly improves the utilization of pseudo-labels in SSM3OD. Our comprehensive experiments on the KITTI benchmark demonstrate the superiority of our method over existing approaches.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [268]
标题:  ELLEN: Extremely Lightly Supervised Learning For Efficient Named Entity  Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17385
作者:  Haris Riaz,  Razvan-Gabriel Dumitru,  Mihai Surdeanu
备注:  Accepted to LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:In this work, we revisit the problem of semi-supervised named entity recognition (NER) focusing on extremely light supervision, consisting of a lexicon containing only 10 examples per class. We introduce ELLEN, a simple, fully modular, neuro-symbolic method that blends fine-tuned language models with linguistic rules. These rules include insights such as ''One Sense Per Discourse'', using a Masked Language Model as an unsupervised NER, leveraging part-of-speech tags to identify and eliminate unlabeled entities as false negatives, and other intuitions about classifier confidence scores in local and global context. ELLEN achieves very strong performance on the CoNLL-2003 dataset when using the minimal supervision from the lexicon above. It also outperforms most existing (and considerably more complex) semi-supervised NER methods under the same supervision settings commonly used in the literature (i.e., 5% of the training data). Further, we evaluate our CoNLL-2003 model in a zero-shot scenario on WNUT-17 where we find that it outperforms GPT-3.5 and achieves comparable performance to GPT-4. In a zero-shot setting, ELLEN also achieves over 75% of the performance of a strong, fully supervised model trained on gold data. Our code is available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [269]
标题:  Explainable Graph Neural Networks for Observation Impact Analysis in  Atmospheric State Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17384
作者:  Hyeon-Ju Jeon,  Jeon-Ho Kang,  In-Hyuk Kwon,  O-Joun Lee
备注:  
Abstract:This paper investigates the impact of observations on atmospheric state estimation in weather forecasting systems using graph neural networks (GNNs) and explainability methods. We integrate observation and Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) points into a meteorological graph, extracting $k$-hop subgraphs centered on NWP points. Self-supervised GNNs are employed to estimate the atmospheric state by aggregating data within these $k$-hop radii. The study applies gradient-based explainability methods to quantify the significance of different observations in the estimation process. Evaluated with data from 11 satellite and land-based observations, the results highlight the effectiveness of visualizing the importance of observation types, enhancing the understanding and optimization of observational data in weather forecasting.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [270]
标题:  Characterizing Dependency Update Practice of NPM, PyPI and Cargo  Packages
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17382
作者:  Imranur Rahman,  Nusrat Zahan,  Stephen Magill,  William Enck,  Laurie Williams
备注:  currently under review
Abstract:Keeping dependencies up-to-date prevents software supply chain attacks through outdated and vulnerable dependencies. Developers may use packages' dependency update practice as one of the selection criteria for choosing a package as a dependency. However, the lack of metrics characterizing packages' dependency update practice makes this assessment difficult. To measure the up-to-date characteristics of packages, we focus on the dependency management aspect and propose two update metrics: Time-Out-Of-Date (TOOD) and Post-Fix-Exposure-Time (PFET), to measure the updatedness of dependencies and updatedness of vulnerable dependencies, respectively. We design an algorithm to stabilize the dependency relationships in different time intervals and compute the proposed metrics for each package. Using our proposed metrics, we conduct a large-scale empirical study of update metrics with 2.9M packages, 66.8M package versions, and 26.8M unique package-dependency relations in NPM, PyPI, and Cargo, ranging from the year 2004 to 2023. We analyze the characteristics of the proposed metrics for capturing packages' dependency update practice in the three ecosystems. Given that the TOOD metric generates a greater volume of data than the PFET metric, we further explore the numerical relationship between these metrics to assess their potential as substitutes for vulnerability counts metrics. We find that PyPI packages update dependencies faster than NPM and Cargo. Conversely, Cargo packages update their vulnerable dependencies faster than NPM and PyPI. We also find that the general purpose update metric, TOOD, can be a proxy for the security-focused update metric, PFET.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [271]
标题:  Application-Driven Innovation in Machine Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17381
作者:  David Rolnick,  Alan Aspuru-Guzik,  Sara Beery,  Bistra Dilkina,  Priya L. Donti,  Marzyeh Ghassemi,  Hannah Kerner,  Claire Monteleoni,  Esther Rolf,  Milind Tambe,  Adam White
备注:  12 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:As applications of machine learning proliferate, innovative algorithms inspired by specific real-world challenges have become increasingly important. Such work offers the potential for significant impact not merely in domains of application but also in machine learning itself. In this paper, we describe the paradigm of application-driven research in machine learning, contrasting it with the more standard paradigm of methods-driven research. We illustrate the benefits of application-driven machine learning and how this approach can productively synergize with methods-driven work. Despite these benefits, we find that reviewing, hiring, and teaching practices in machine learning often hold back application-driven innovation. We outline how these processes may be improved.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [272]
标题:  Exploring and Applying Audio-Based Sentiment Analysis in Music
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17379
作者:  Etash Jhanji
备注:  5 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables. For source code, see this https URL
Abstract:Sentiment analysis is a continuously explored area of text processing that deals with the computational analysis of opinions, sentiments, and subjectivity of text. However, this idea is not limited to text and speech, in fact, it could be applied to other modalities. In reality, humans do not express themselves in text as deeply as they do in music. The ability of a computational model to interpret musical emotions is largely unexplored and could have implications and uses in therapy and musical queuing. In this paper, two individual tasks are addressed. This study seeks to (1) predict the emotion of a musical clip over time and (2) determine the next emotion value after the music in a time series to ensure seamless transitions. Utilizing data from the Emotions in Music Database, which contains clips of songs selected from the Free Music Archive annotated with levels of valence and arousal as reported on Russel's circumplex model of affect by multiple volunteers, models are trained for both tasks. Overall, the performance of these models reflected that they were able to perform the tasks they were designed for effectively and accurately.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [273]
标题:  Low-Latency Neural Speech Phase Prediction based on Parallel Estimation  Architecture and Anti-Wrapping Losses for Speech Generation Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17378
作者:  Yang Ai,  Zhen-Hua Ling
备注:  Accepted by IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2211.15974
Abstract:This paper presents a novel neural speech phase prediction model which predicts wrapped phase spectra directly from amplitude spectra. The proposed model is a cascade of a residual convolutional network and a parallel estimation architecture. The parallel estimation architecture is a core module for direct wrapped phase prediction. This architecture consists of two parallel linear convolutional layers and a phase calculation formula, imitating the process of calculating the phase spectra from the real and imaginary parts of complex spectra and strictly restricting the predicted phase values to the principal value interval. To avoid the error expansion issue caused by phase wrapping, we design anti-wrapping training losses defined between the predicted wrapped phase spectra and natural ones by activating the instantaneous phase error, group delay error and instantaneous angular frequency error using an anti-wrapping function. We mathematically demonstrate that the anti-wrapping function should possess three properties, namely parity, periodicity and monotonicity. We also achieve low-latency streamable phase prediction by combining causal convolutions and knowledge distillation training strategies. For both analysis-synthesis and specific speech generation tasks, experimental results show that our proposed neural speech phase prediction model outperforms the iterative phase estimation algorithms and neural network-based phase prediction methods in terms of phase prediction precision, efficiency and robustness. Compared with HiFi-GAN-based waveform reconstruction method, our proposed model also shows outstanding efficiency advantages while ensuring the quality of synthesized speech. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to directly predict speech phase spectra from amplitude spectra only via neural networks.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [274]
标题:  Self-Rectifying Diffusion Sampling with Perturbed-Attention Guidance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17377
作者:  Donghoon Ahn,  Hyoungwon Cho,  Jaewon Min,  Wooseok Jang,  Jungwoo Kim,  SeonHwa Kim,  Hyun Hee Park,  Kyong Hwan Jin,  Seungryong Kim
备注:  Project page is available at this https URL
Abstract:Recent studies have demonstrated that diffusion models are capable of generating high-quality samples, but their quality heavily depends on sampling guidance techniques, such as classifier guidance (CG) and classifier-free guidance (CFG). These techniques are often not applicable in unconditional generation or in various downstream tasks such as image restoration. In this paper, we propose a novel sampling guidance, called Perturbed-Attention Guidance (PAG), which improves diffusion sample quality across both unconditional and conditional settings, achieving this without requiring additional training or the integration of external modules. PAG is designed to progressively enhance the structure of samples throughout the denoising process. It involves generating intermediate samples with degraded structure by substituting selected self-attention maps in diffusion U-Net with an identity matrix, by considering the self-attention mechanisms' ability to capture structural information, and guiding the denoising process away from these degraded samples. In both ADM and Stable Diffusion, PAG surprisingly improves sample quality in conditional and even unconditional scenarios. Moreover, PAG significantly improves the baseline performance in various downstream tasks where existing guidances such as CG or CFG cannot be fully utilized, including ControlNet with empty prompts and image restoration such as inpainting and deblurring.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [275]
标题:  Theoretical Analysis of Quality of Conventional Beamforming for Phased  Microphone Arrays
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17376
作者:  Dheepak Khatri,  Kenneth Granlund
备注:  
Abstract:A theoretical study is performed to analyze the directional response of different types of microphone array designs. 1-D (linear) and 2-D (planar) microphone array types are considered, and the delay and sum beamforming and conventional beamforming techniques are employed to localize the sound source. A non-dimensional parameter, G, is characterized to simplify and standardize the rejection performance of both 1-D and 2-D microphone arrays as a function of array geometry and sound source parameters. This parameter G is then used to determine an improved design of a 2-D microphone array for far-field sound localization. One such design, termed the Equi-area array is introduced and analyzed in detail. The design is shown to have an advantageous rejection performance compared to other conventionally used 2-D planar microphone arrays.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [276]
标题:  Multi-Domain Recommendation to Attract Users via Domain Preference  Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17374
作者:  Hyuunjun Ju,  SeongKu Kang,  Dongha Lee,  Junyoung Hwang,  Sanghwan Jang,  Hwanjo Yu
备注:  Accepted to AAAI'24
Abstract:Recently, web platforms have been operating various service domains simultaneously. Targeting a platform that operates multiple service domains, we introduce a new task, Multi-Domain Recommendation to Attract Users (MDRAU), which recommends items from multiple ``unseen'' domains with which each user has not interacted yet, by using knowledge from the user's ``seen'' domains. In this paper, we point out two challenges of MDRAU task. First, there are numerous possible combinations of mappings from seen to unseen domains because users have usually interacted with a different subset of service domains. Second, a user might have different preferences for each of the target unseen domains, which requires that recommendations reflect the user's preferences on domains as well as items. To tackle these challenges, we propose DRIP framework that models users' preferences at two levels (i.e., domain and item) and learns various seen-unseen domain mappings in a unified way with masked domain modeling. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of DRIP in MDRAU task and its ability to capture users' domain-level preferences.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [277]
标题:  AIDE: An Automatic Data Engine for Object Detection in Autonomous  Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17373
作者:  Mingfu Liang,  Jong-Chyi Su,  Samuel Schulter,  Sparsh Garg,  Shiyu Zhao,  Ying Wu,  Manmohan Chandraker
备注:  Accepted by CVPR-2024
Abstract:Autonomous vehicle (AV) systems rely on robust perception models as a cornerstone of safety assurance. However, objects encountered on the road exhibit a long-tailed distribution, with rare or unseen categories posing challenges to a deployed perception model. This necessitates an expensive process of continuously curating and annotating data with significant human effort. We propose to leverage recent advances in vision-language and large language models to design an Automatic Data Engine (AIDE) that automatically identifies issues, efficiently curates data, improves the model through auto-labeling, and verifies the model through generation of diverse scenarios. This process operates iteratively, allowing for continuous self-improvement of the model. We further establish a benchmark for open-world detection on AV datasets to comprehensively evaluate various learning paradigms, demonstrating our method's superior performance at a reduced cost.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [278]
标题:  An Empirical Study of Training ID-Agnostic Multi-modal Sequential  Recommenders
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17372
作者:  Youhua Li,  Hanwen Du,  Yongxin Ni,  Yuanqi He,  Junchen Fu,  Xiangyan Liu,  Qi Guo
备注:  An Empirical Study of Training ID-Agnostic Multi-modal Sequential Recommenders
Abstract:Sequential Recommendation (SR) aims to predict future user-item interactions based on historical interactions. While many SR approaches concentrate on user IDs and item IDs, the human perception of the world through multi-modal signals, like text and images, has inspired researchers to delve into constructing SR from multi-modal information without using IDs. However, the complexity of multi-modal learning manifests in diverse feature extractors, fusion methods, and pre-trained models. Consequently, designing a simple and universal \textbf{M}ulti-\textbf{M}odal \textbf{S}equential \textbf{R}ecommendation (\textbf{MMSR}) framework remains a formidable challenge. We systematically summarize the existing multi-modal related SR methods and distill the essence into four core components: visual encoder, text encoder, multimodal fusion module, and sequential architecture. Along these dimensions, we dissect the model designs, and answer the following sub-questions: First, we explore how to construct MMSR from scratch, ensuring its performance either on par with or exceeds existing SR methods without complex techniques. Second, we examine if MMSR can benefit from existing multi-modal pre-training paradigms. Third, we assess MMSR's capability in tackling common challenges like cold start and domain transferring. Our experiment results across four real-world recommendation scenarios demonstrate the great potential ID-agnostic multi-modal sequential recommendation. Our framework can be found at: this https URL.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [279]
标题:  Robust Containment Queries over Collections of Rational Parametric  Curves via Generalized Winding Numbers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17371
作者:  Jacob Spainhour,  David Gunderman,  Kenneth Weiss
备注:  14 pages, 18 figures
Abstract:Point containment queries for regions bound by watertight geometric surfaces, i.e. closed and without self-intersections, can be evaluated straightforwardly with a number of well-studied algorithms. However, when such assumptions on domain geometry are not met, these methods are theoretically unfounded at best and practically unusable at worst. More robust classification schemes utilize generalized winding numbers, a mathematical construction that is indifferent to imperfections in the often human-defined geometric model. We extend this methodology to more general curved shapes, defining a robust containment query for regions whose boundary elements are defined by a collection of rational parametric curves. In doing so, we devise an algorithm that is stable and accurate at arbitrary points in space, circumventing the typical difficulties for queries that are arbitrarily close or coincident with the model. This is done by reducing the generalized winding number problem to an integer winding number problem, which is solved by approximating each curve with a polyline that provably has the same winding number at the point of interest. We demonstrate the improvements in computational complexity granted by this method over conventional techniques, as well as the robustness induced by its application
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Graphics (cs.GR); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [280]
标题:  Formal Verification of the Empty Hexagon Number
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17370
作者:  Bernardo Subercaseaux,  Wojciech Nawrocki,  James Gallicchio,  Cayden Codel,  Mario Carneiro,  Marijn J. H. Heule
备注:  submitted to ITP 2024
Abstract:A recent breakthrough in computer-assisted mathematics showed that every set of $30$ points in the plane in general position (i.e., without three on a common line) contains an empty convex hexagon, thus closing a line of research dating back to the 1930s. Through a combination of geometric insights and automated reasoning techniques, Heule and Scheucher constructed a CNF formula $\phi_n$, with $O(n^4)$ clauses, whose unsatisfiability implies that no set of $n$ points in general position can avoid an empty convex hexagon. An unsatisfiability proof for n = 30 was then found with a SAT solver using 17300 CPU hours of parallel computation, thus implying that the empty hexagon number h(6) is equal to 30. In this paper, we formalize and verify this result in the Lean theorem prover. Our formalization covers discrete computational geometry ideas and SAT encoding techniques that have been successfully applied to similar Erdős-Szekeres-type problems. In particular, our framework provides tools to connect standard mathematical objects to propositional assignments, which represents a key step towards the formal verification of other SAT-based mathematical results. Overall, we hope that this work sets a new standard for verification when extensive computation is used for discrete geometry problems, and that it increases the trust the mathematical community has in computer-assisted proofs in this area.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [281]
标题:  CoDA: Instructive Chain-of-Domain Adaptation with Severity-Aware Visual  Prompt Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17369
作者:  Ziyang Gong,  Fuhao Li,  Yupeng Deng,  Deblina Bhattacharjee,  Xiangwei Zhu,  Zhenming Ji
备注:  
Abstract:Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) aims to adapt models from labeled source domains to unlabeled target domains. When adapting to adverse scenes, existing UDA methods fail to perform well due to the lack of instructions, leading their models to overlook discrepancies within all adverse scenes. To tackle this, we propose CoDA which instructs models to distinguish, focus, and learn from these discrepancies at scene and image levels. Specifically, CoDA consists of a Chain-of-Domain (CoD) strategy and a Severity-Aware Visual Prompt Tuning (SAVPT) mechanism. CoD focuses on scene-level instructions to divide all adverse scenes into easy and hard scenes, guiding models to adapt from source to easy domains with easy scene images, and then to hard domains with hard scene images, thereby laying a solid foundation for whole adaptations. Building upon this foundation, we employ SAVPT to dive into more detailed image-level instructions to boost performance. SAVPT features a novel metric Severity that divides all adverse scene images into low-severity and high-severity images. Then Severity directs visual prompts and adapters, instructing models to concentrate on unified severity features instead of scene-specific features, without adding complexity to the model architecture. CoDA achieves SOTA performances on widely-used benchmarks under all adverse scenes. Notably, CoDA outperforms the existing ones by 4.6%, and 10.3% mIoU on the Foggy Driving, and Foggy Zurich benchmarks, respectively. Our code is available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [282]
标题:  ChatGPT Rates Natural Language Explanation Quality Like Humans: But on  Which Scales?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17368
作者:  Fan Huang,  Haewoon Kwak,  Kunwoo Park,  Jisun An
备注:  Accpeted by LREC-COLING 2024 main conference, long paper
Abstract:As AI becomes more integral in our lives, the need for transparency and responsibility grows. While natural language explanations (NLEs) are vital for clarifying the reasoning behind AI decisions, evaluating them through human judgments is complex and resource-intensive due to subjectivity and the need for fine-grained ratings. This study explores the alignment between ChatGPT and human assessments across multiple scales (i.e., binary, ternary, and 7-Likert scale). We sample 300 data instances from three NLE datasets and collect 900 human annotations for both informativeness and clarity scores as the text quality measurement. We further conduct paired comparison experiments under different ranges of subjectivity scores, where the baseline comes from 8,346 human annotations. Our results show that ChatGPT aligns better with humans in more coarse-grained scales. Also, paired comparisons and dynamic prompting (i.e., providing semantically similar examples in the prompt) improve the alignment. This research advances our understanding of large language models' capabilities to assess the text explanation quality in different configurations for responsible AI development.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [283]
标题:  RoboDuet: A Framework Affording Mobile-Manipulation and Cross-Embodiment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17367
作者:  Guoping Pan,  Qingwei Ben,  Zhecheng Yuan,  Guangqi Jiang,  Yandong Ji,  Jiangmiao Pang,  Houde Liu,  Huazhe Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Combining the mobility of legged robots with the manipulation skills of arms has the potential to significantly expand the operational range and enhance the capabilities of robotic systems in performing various mobile manipulation tasks. Existing approaches are confined to imprecise six degrees of freedom (DoF) manipulation and possess a limited arm workspace. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, RoboDuet, which employs two collaborative policies to realize locomotion and manipulation simultaneously, achieving whole-body control through interactions between each other. Surprisingly, going beyond the large-range pose tracking, we find that the two-policy framework may enable cross-embodiment deployment such as using different quadrupedal robots or other arms. Our experiments demonstrate that the policies trained through RoboDuet can accomplish stable gaits, agile 6D end-effector pose tracking, and zero-shot exchange of legged robots, and can be deployed in the real world to perform various mobile manipulation tasks. Our project page with demo videos is at this https URL .
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [284]
标题:  Extracting Biomedical Entities from Noisy Audio Transcripts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17363
作者:  Nima Ebadi,  Kellen Morgan,  Adrian Tan,  Billy Linares,  Sheri Osborn,  Emma Majors,  Jeremy Davis,  Anthony Rios
备注:  Accepted to LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) technology is fundamental in transcribing spoken language into text, with considerable applications in the clinical realm, including streamlining medical transcription and integrating with Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems. Nevertheless, challenges persist, especially when transcriptions contain noise, leading to significant drops in performance when Natural Language Processing (NLP) models are applied. Named Entity Recognition (NER), an essential clinical task, is particularly affected by such noise, often termed the ASR-NLP gap. Prior works have primarily studied ASR's efficiency in clean recordings, leaving a research gap concerning the performance in noisy environments. This paper introduces a novel dataset, BioASR-NER, designed to bridge the ASR-NLP gap in the biomedical domain, focusing on extracting adverse drug reactions and mentions of entities from the Brief Test of Adult Cognition by Telephone (BTACT) exam. Our dataset offers a comprehensive collection of almost 2,000 clean and noisy recordings. In addressing the noise challenge, we present an innovative transcript-cleaning method using GPT4, investigating both zero-shot and few-shot methodologies. Our study further delves into an error analysis, shedding light on the types of errors in transcription software, corrections by GPT4, and the challenges GPT4 faces. This paper aims to foster improved understanding and potential solutions for the ASR-NLP gap, ultimately supporting enhanced healthcare documentation practices.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [285]
标题:  Bridging Textual and Tabular Worlds for Fact Verification: A  Lightweight, Attention-Based Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17361
作者:  Shirin Dabbaghi Varnosfaderani,  Canasai Kruengkrai,  Ramin Yahyapour,  Junichi Yamagishi
备注:  Accepted for a presentation at LREC-COLING 2024 - The 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation
Abstract:FEVEROUS is a benchmark and research initiative focused on fact extraction and verification tasks involving unstructured text and structured tabular data. In FEVEROUS, existing works often rely on extensive preprocessing and utilize rule-based transformations of data, leading to potential context loss or misleading encodings. This paper introduces a simple yet powerful model that nullifies the need for modality conversion, thereby preserving the original evidence's context. By leveraging pre-trained models on diverse text and tabular datasets and by incorporating a lightweight attention-based mechanism, our approach efficiently exploits latent connections between different data types, thereby yielding comprehensive and reliable verdict predictions. The model's modular structure adeptly manages multi-modal information, ensuring the integrity and authenticity of the original evidence are uncompromised. Comparative analyses reveal that our approach exhibits competitive performance, aligning itself closely with top-tier models on the FEVEROUS benchmark.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [286]
标题:  Activity-Biometrics: Person Identification from Daily Activities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17360
作者:  Shehreen Azad,  Yogesh Singh Rawat
备注:  CVPR 2024 Main conference
Abstract:In this work, we study a novel problem which focuses on person identification while performing daily activities. Learning biometric features from RGB videos is challenging due to spatio-temporal complexity and presence of appearance biases such as clothing color and background. We propose ABNet, a novel framework which leverages disentanglement of biometric and non-biometric features to perform effective person identification from daily activities. ABNet relies on a bias-less teacher to learn biometric features from RGB videos and explicitly disentangle non-biometric features with the help of biometric distortion. In addition, ABNet also exploits activity prior for biometrics which is enabled by joint biometric and activity learning. We perform comprehensive evaluation of the proposed approach across five different datasets which are derived from existing activity recognition benchmarks. Furthermore, we extensively compare ABNet with existing works in person identification and demonstrate its effectiveness for activity-based biometrics across all five datasets. The code and dataset can be accessed at: \url{this https URL}
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [287]
标题:  Chain-of-Action: Faithful and Multimodal Question Answering through  Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17359
作者:  Zhenyu Pan,  Haozheng Luo,  Manling Li,  Han Liu
备注:  
Abstract:We present a Chain-of-Action (CoA) framework for multimodal and retrieval-augmented Question-Answering (QA). Compared to the literature, CoA overcomes two major challenges of current QA applications: (i) unfaithful hallucination that is inconsistent with real-time or domain facts and (ii) weak reasoning performance over compositional information. Our key contribution is a novel reasoning-retrieval mechanism that decomposes a complex question into a reasoning chain via systematic prompting and pre-designed actions. Methodologically, we propose three types of domain-adaptable `Plug-and-Play' actions for retrieving real-time information from heterogeneous sources. We also propose a multi-reference faith score (MRFS) to verify and resolve conflicts in the answers. Empirically, we exploit both public benchmarks and a Web3 case study to demonstrate the capability of CoA over other methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [288]
标题:  Addressing Myopic Constrained POMDP Planning with Recursive Dual Ascent
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17358
作者:  Paula Stocco,  Suhas Chundi,  Arec Jamgochian,  Mykel J. Kochenderfer
备注:  Accepted to the 2024 International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling (ICAPS)
Abstract:Lagrangian-guided Monte Carlo tree search with global dual ascent has been applied to solve large constrained partially observable Markov decision processes (CPOMDPs) online. In this work, we demonstrate that these global dual parameters can lead to myopic action selection during exploration, ultimately leading to suboptimal decision making. To address this, we introduce history-dependent dual variables that guide local action selection and are optimized with recursive dual ascent. We empirically compare the performance of our approach on a motivating toy example and two large CPOMDPs, demonstrating improved exploration, and ultimately, safer outcomes.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [289]
标题:  MESIA: Understanding and Leveraging Supplementary Nature of Method-level  Comments for Automatic Comment Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17357
作者:  Xinglu Pan,  Chenxiao Liu,  Yanzhen Zou,  Tao Xie,  Bing Xie
备注:  In 32nd IEEE/ACM International Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC'24)
Abstract:Code comments are important for developers in program comprehension. In scenarios of comprehending and reusing a method, developers expect code comments to provide supplementary information beyond the method signature. However, the extent of such supplementary information varies a lot in different code comments. In this paper, we raise the awareness of the supplementary nature of method-level comments and propose a new metric named MESIA (Mean Supplementary Information Amount) to assess the extent of supplementary information that a code comment can provide. With the MESIA metric, we conduct experiments on a popular code-comment dataset and three common types of neural approaches to generate method-level comments. Our experimental results demonstrate the value of our proposed work with a number of findings. (1) Small-MESIA comments occupy around 20% of the dataset and mostly fall into only the WHAT comment category. (2) Being able to provide various kinds of essential information, large-MESIA comments in the dataset are difficult for existing neural approaches to generate. (3) We can improve the capability of existing neural approaches to generate large-MESIA comments by reducing the proportion of small-MESIA comments in the training set. (4) The retrained model can generate large-MESIA comments that convey essential meaningful supplementary information for methods in the small-MESIA test set, but will get a lower BLEU score in evaluation. These findings indicate that with good training data, auto-generated comments can sometimes even surpass human-written reference comments, and having no appropriate ground truth for evaluation is an issue that needs to be addressed by future work on automatic comment generation.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [290]
标题:  Multi-Objective Trajectory Planning with Dual-Encoder
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17353
作者:  Beibei Zhang,  Tian Xiang,  Chentao Mao,  Yuhua Zheng,  Shuai Li,  Haoyi Niu,  Xiangming Xi,  Wenyuan Bai,  Feng Gao
备注:  6 pages, 7 figures, conference
Abstract:Time-jerk optimal trajectory planning is crucial in advancing robotic arms' performance in dynamic tasks. Traditional methods rely on solving complex nonlinear programming problems, bringing significant delays in generating optimized trajectories. In this paper, we propose a two-stage approach to accelerate time-jerk optimal trajectory planning. Firstly, we introduce a dual-encoder based transformer model to establish a good preliminary trajectory. This trajectory is subsequently refined through sequential quadratic programming to improve its optimality and robustness. Our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art by up to 79.72\% in reducing trajectory planning time. Compared with existing methods, our method shrinks the optimality gap with the objective function value decreasing by up to 29.9\%.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [291]
标题:  Learn from Heterophily: Heterophilous Information-enhanced Graph Neural  Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17351
作者:  Yilun Zheng,  Jiahao Xu,  Lihui Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Under circumstances of heterophily, where nodes with different labels tend to be connected based on semantic meanings, Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) often exhibit suboptimal performance. Current studies on graph heterophily mainly focus on aggregation calibration or neighbor extension and address the heterophily issue by utilizing node features or structural information to improve GNN representations. In this paper, we propose and demonstrate that the valuable semantic information inherent in heterophily can be utilized effectively in graph learning by investigating the distribution of neighbors for each individual node within the graph. The theoretical analysis is carried out to demonstrate the efficacy of the idea in enhancing graph learning. Based on this analysis, we propose HiGNN, an innovative approach that constructs an additional new graph structure, that integrates heterophilous information by leveraging node distribution to enhance connectivity between nodes that share similar semantic characteristics. We conduct empirical assessments on node classification tasks using both homophilous and heterophilous benchmark datasets and compare HiGNN to popular GNN baselines and SoTA methods, confirming the effectiveness in improving graph representations. In addition, by incorporating heterophilous information, we demonstrate a notable enhancement in existing GNN-based approaches, and the homophily degree across real-world datasets, thus affirming the efficacy of our approach.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [292]
标题:  The Solution of the Zodiac Killer's 340-Character Cipher
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17350
作者:  David Oranchak,  Sam Blake,  Jarl Van Eycke
备注:  
Abstract:The case of the Zodiac Killer is one of the most widely known unsolved serial killer cases in history. The unidentified killer murdered five known victims and terrorized the state of California. He also communicated extensively with the press and law enforcement. Besides his murders, Zodiac was known for his use of ciphers. The first Zodiac cipher was solved within a week of its publication, while the second cipher was solved by the authors after 51 years, when it was discovered to be a transposition and homophonic substitution cipher with unusual qualities. In this paper, we detail the historical significance of this cipher and the numerous efforts which culminated in its solution.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [293]
标题:  Unified Path and Gait Planning for Safe Bipedal Robot Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17347
作者:  Chengyang Peng,  Victor Paredes,  Ayonga Hereid
备注:  8 pages
Abstract:Safe path and gait planning are essential for bipedal robots to navigate complex real-world environments. The prevailing approaches often plan the path and gait separately in a hierarchical fashion, potentially resulting in unsafe movements due to neglecting the physical constraints of walking robots. A safety-critical path must not only avoid obstacles but also ensure that the robot's gaits are subject to its dynamic and kinematic constraints. This work presents a novel approach that unifies path planning and gait planning via a Model Predictive Control (MPC) using the Linear Inverted Pendulum (LIP) model representing bipedal locomotion. This approach considers environmental constraints, such as obstacles, and the robot's kinematics and dynamics constraints. By using discrete-time Control Barrier Functions for obstacle avoidance, our approach generates the next foot landing position, ensuring robust walking gaits and a safe navigation path within clustered environments. We validated our proposed approach in simulation using a Digit robot in 20 randomly created environments. The results demonstrate improved performance in terms of safety and robustness when compared to hierarchical path and gait planning frameworks.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [294]
标题:  TRAM: Global Trajectory and Motion of 3D Humans from in-the-wild Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17346
作者:  Yufu Wang,  Ziyun Wang,  Lingjie Liu,  Kostas Daniilidis
备注:  The project website: this https URL
Abstract:We propose TRAM, a two-stage method to reconstruct a human's global trajectory and motion from in-the-wild videos. TRAM robustifies SLAM to recover the camera motion in the presence of dynamic humans and uses the scene background to derive the motion scale. Using the recovered camera as a metric-scale reference frame, we introduce a video transformer model (VIMO) to regress the kinematic body motion of a human. By composing the two motions, we achieve accurate recovery of 3D humans in the world space, reducing global motion errors by 60% from prior work. this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [295]
标题:  Disambiguate Entity Matching through Relation Discovery with Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17344
作者:  Zezhou Huang
备注:  
Abstract:Entity matching is a critical challenge in data integration and cleaning, central to tasks like fuzzy joins and deduplication. Traditional approaches have focused on overcoming fuzzy term representations through methods such as edit distance, Jaccard similarity, and more recently, embeddings and deep neural networks, including advancements from large language models (LLMs) like GPT. However, the core challenge in entity matching extends beyond term fuzziness to the ambiguity in defining what constitutes a "match," especially when integrating with external databases. This ambiguity arises due to varying levels of detail and granularity among entities, complicating exact matches. We propose a novel approach that shifts focus from purely identifying semantic similarities to understanding and defining the "relations" between entities as crucial for resolving ambiguities in matching. By predefining a set of relations relevant to the task at hand, our method allows analysts to navigate the spectrum of similarity more effectively, from exact matches to conceptually related entities.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [296]
标题:  Language Models are Free Boosters for Biomedical Imaging Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17343
作者:  Zhixin Lai,  Jing Wu,  Suiyao Chen,  Yucheng Zhou,  Anna Hovakimyan,  Naira Hovakimyan
备注:  
Abstract:In this study, we uncover the unexpected efficacy of residual-based large language models (LLMs) as part of encoders for biomedical imaging tasks, a domain traditionally devoid of language or textual data. The approach diverges from established methodologies by utilizing a frozen transformer block, extracted from pre-trained LLMs, as an innovative encoder layer for the direct processing of visual tokens. This strategy represents a significant departure from the standard multi-modal vision-language frameworks, which typically hinge on language-driven prompts and inputs. We found that these LLMs could boost performance across a spectrum of biomedical imaging applications, including both 2D and 3D visual classification tasks, serving as plug-and-play boosters. More interestingly, as a byproduct, we found that the proposed framework achieved superior performance, setting new state-of-the-art results on extensive, standardized datasets in MedMNIST-2D and 3D. Through this work, we aim to open new avenues for employing LLMs in biomedical imaging and enriching the understanding of their potential in this specialized domain.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [297]
标题:  The Solution for the ICCV 2023 1st Scientific Figure Captioning  Challenge
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17342
作者:  Dian Chao,  Xin Song,  Shupeng Zhong,  Boyuan Wang,  Xiangyu Wu,  Chen Zhu,  Yang Yang
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a solution for improving the quality of captions generated for figures in papers. We adopt the approach of summarizing the textual content in the paper to generate image captions. Throughout our study, we encounter discrepancies in the OCR information provided in the official dataset. To rectify this, we employ the PaddleOCR toolkit to extract OCR information from all images. Moreover, we observe that certain textual content in the official paper pertains to images that are not relevant for captioning, thereby introducing noise during caption generation. To mitigate this issue, we leverage LLaMA to extract image-specific information by querying the textual content based on image mentions, effectively filtering out extraneous information. Additionally, we recognize a discrepancy between the primary use of maximum likelihood estimation during text generation and the evaluation metrics such as ROUGE employed to assess the quality of generated captions. To bridge this gap, we integrate the BRIO model framework, enabling a more coherent alignment between the generation and evaluation processes. Our approach ranked first in the final test with a score of 4.49.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [298]
标题:  Reinforcement Learning-based Receding Horizon Control using Adaptive  Control Barrier Functions for Safety-Critical Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17338
作者:  Ehsan Sabouni,  H.M. Sabbir Ahmad,  Vittorio Giammarino,  Christos G. Cassandras,  Ioannis Ch. Paschalidis,  Wenchao Li
备注:  
Abstract:Optimal control methods provide solutions to safety-critical problems but easily become intractable. Control Barrier Functions (CBFs) have emerged as a popular technique that facilitates their solution by provably guaranteeing safety, through their forward invariance property, at the expense of some performance loss. This approach involves defining a performance objective alongside CBF-based safety constraints that must always be enforced. Unfortunately, both performance and solution feasibility can be significantly impacted by two key factors: (i) the selection of the cost function and associated parameters, and (ii) the calibration of parameters within the CBF-based constraints, which capture the trade-off between performance and conservativeness. %as well as infeasibility. To address these challenges, we propose a Reinforcement Learning (RL)-based Receding Horizon Control (RHC) approach leveraging Model Predictive Control (MPC) with CBFs (MPC-CBF). In particular, we parameterize our controller and use bilevel optimization, where RL is used to learn the optimal parameters while MPC computes the optimal control input. We validate our method by applying it to the challenging automated merging control problem for Connected and Automated Vehicles (CAVs) at conflicting roadways. Results demonstrate improved performance and a significant reduction in the number of infeasible cases compared to traditional heuristic approaches used for tuning CBF-based controllers, showcasing the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [299]
标题:  Destination-Constrained Linear Dynamical System Modeling in Set-Valued  Frameworks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17337
作者:  Xiaowei Yang,  Haiqi Liu,  Fanqin Meng,  Xiaojing Shen
备注:  15 pages, 11 figures
Abstract:Directional motion towards a specified destination is a common occurrence in physical processes and human societal activities. Utilizing this prior information can significantly improve the control and predictive performance of system models. This paper primarily focuses on reconstructing linear dynamic system models based on destination constraints in the set-valued framework. We treat destination constraints as inherent information in the state evolution process and employ convex optimization techniques to construct a coherent and robust state model. This refined model effectively captures the impact of destination constraints on the state evolution at each time step. Furthermore, we design an optimal weight matrix for the reconstructed model to ensure smoother and more natural trajectories of state evolution. We also analyze the theoretical guarantee of optimality for this weight matrix and the properties of the reconstructed model. Finally, simulation experiments verify that the reconstructed model has significant advantages over the unconstrained and unoptimized weighted models and constrains the evolution of state trajectories with different starting and ending points.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [300]
标题:  Don't Listen To Me: Understanding and Exploring Jailbreak Prompts of  Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17336
作者:  Zhiyuan Yu,  Xiaogeng Liu,  Shunning Liang,  Zach Cameron,  Chaowei Xiao,  Ning Zhang
备注:  Accepted by USENIX Security 2024
Abstract:Recent advancements in generative AI have enabled ubiquitous access to large language models (LLMs). Empowered by their exceptional capabilities to understand and generate human-like text, these models are being increasingly integrated into our society. At the same time, there are also concerns on the potential misuse of this powerful technology, prompting defensive measures from service providers. To overcome such protection, jailbreaking prompts have recently emerged as one of the most effective mechanisms to circumvent security restrictions and elicit harmful content originally designed to be prohibited. Due to the rapid development of LLMs and their ease of access via natural languages, the frontline of jailbreak prompts is largely seen in online forums and among hobbyists. To gain a better understanding of the threat landscape of semantically meaningful jailbreak prompts, we systemized existing prompts and measured their jailbreak effectiveness empirically. Further, we conducted a user study involving 92 participants with diverse backgrounds to unveil the process of manually creating jailbreak prompts. We observed that users often succeeded in jailbreak prompts generation regardless of their expertise in LLMs. Building on the insights from the user study, we also developed a system using AI as the assistant to automate the process of jailbreak prompt generation.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [301]
标题:  OVER-NAV: Elevating Iterative Vision-and-Language Navigation with  Open-Vocabulary Detection and StructurEd Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17334
作者:  Ganlong Zhao,  Guanbin Li,  Weikai Chen,  Yizhou Yu
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:Recent advances in Iterative Vision-and-Language Navigation (IVLN) introduce a more meaningful and practical paradigm of VLN by maintaining the agent's memory across tours of scenes. Although the long-term memory aligns better with the persistent nature of the VLN task, it poses more challenges on how to utilize the highly unstructured navigation memory with extremely sparse supervision. Towards this end, we propose OVER-NAV, which aims to go over and beyond the current arts of IVLN techniques. In particular, we propose to incorporate LLMs and open-vocabulary detectors to distill key information and establish correspondence between multi-modal signals. Such a mechanism introduces reliable cross-modal supervision and enables on-the-fly generalization to unseen scenes without the need of extra annotation and re-training. To fully exploit the interpreted navigation data, we further introduce a structured representation, coded Omnigraph, to effectively integrate multi-modal information along the tour. Accompanied with a novel omnigraph fusion mechanism, OVER-NAV is able to extract the most relevant knowledge from omnigraph for a more accurate navigating action. In addition, OVER-NAV seamlessly supports both discrete and continuous environments under a unified framework. We demonstrate the superiority of OVER-NAV in extensive experiments.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [302]
标题:  The Pursuit of Fairness in Artificial Intelligence Models: A Survey
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17333
作者:  Tahsin Alamgir Kheya,  Mohamed Reda Bouadjenek,  Sunil Aryal
备注:  37 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Artificial Intelligence (AI) models are now being utilized in all facets of our lives such as healthcare, education and employment. Since they are used in numerous sensitive environments and make decisions that can be life altering, potential biased outcomes are a pressing matter. Developers should ensure that such models don't manifest any unexpected discriminatory practices like partiality for certain genders, ethnicities or disabled people. With the ubiquitous dissemination of AI systems, researchers and practitioners are becoming more aware of unfair models and are bound to mitigate bias in them. Significant research has been conducted in addressing such issues to ensure models don't intentionally or unintentionally perpetuate bias. This survey offers a synopsis of the different ways researchers have promoted fairness in AI systems. We explore the different definitions of fairness existing in the current literature. We create a comprehensive taxonomy by categorizing different types of bias and investigate cases of biased AI in different application domains. A thorough study is conducted of the approaches and techniques employed by researchers to mitigate bias in AI models. Moreover, we also delve into the impact of biased models on user experience and the ethical considerations to contemplate when developing and deploying such models. We hope this survey helps researchers and practitioners understand the intricate details of fairness and bias in AI systems. By sharing this thorough survey, we aim to promote additional discourse in the domain of equitable and responsible AI.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [303]
标题:  FedMIL: Federated-Multiple Instance Learning for Video Analysis with  Optimized DPP Scheduling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17331
作者:  Ashish Bastola,  Hao Wang,  Xiwen Chen,  Abolfazl Razi
备注:  
Abstract:Many AI platforms, including traffic monitoring systems, use Federated Learning (FL) for decentralized sensor data processing for learning-based applications while preserving privacy and ensuring secured information transfer. On the other hand, applying supervised learning to large data samples, like high-resolution images requires intensive human labor to label different parts of a data sample. Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) alleviates this challenge by operating over labels assigned to the 'bag' of instances. In this paper, we introduce Federated Multiple-Instance Learning (FedMIL). This framework applies federated learning to boost the training performance in video-based MIL tasks such as vehicle accident detection using distributed CCTV networks. However, data sources in decentralized settings are not typically Independently and Identically Distributed (IID), making client selection imperative to collectively represent the entire dataset with minimal clients. To address this challenge, we propose DPPQ, a framework based on the Determinantal Point Process (DPP) with a quality-based kernel to select clients with the most diverse datasets that achieve better performance compared to both random selection and current DPP-based client selection methods even with less data utilization in the majority of non-IID cases. This offers a significant advantage for deployment on edge devices with limited computational resources, providing a reliable solution for training AI models in massive smart sensor networks.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [304]
标题:  Staircase Localization for Autonomous Exploration in Urban Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17330
作者:  Jinrae Kim,  Sunggoo Jung,  Sung-Kyun Kim,  Youdan Kim,  Ali-akbar Agha-mohammadi
备注:  9 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:A staircase localization method is proposed for robots to explore urban environments autonomously. The proposed method employs a modular design in the form of a cascade pipeline consisting of three modules of stair detection, line segment detection, and stair localization modules. The stair detection module utilizes an object detection algorithm based on deep learning to generate a region of interest (ROI). From the ROI, line segment features are extracted using a deep line segment detection algorithm. The extracted line segments are used to localize a staircase in terms of position, orientation, and stair direction. The stair detection and localization are performed only with a single RGB-D camera. Each component of the proposed pipeline does not need to be designed particularly for staircases, which makes it easy to maintain the whole pipeline and replace each component with state-of-the-art deep learning detection techniques. The results of real-world experiments show that the proposed method can perform accurate stair detection and localization during autonomous exploration for various structured and unstructured upstairs and downstairs with shadows, dirt, and occlusions by artificial and natural objects.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [305]
标题:  Deep Support Vectors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17329
作者:  Junhoo Lee,  Hyunho Lee,  Kyomin Hwang,  Nojun Kwak
备注:  
Abstract:While the success of deep learning is commonly attributed to its theoretical equivalence with Support Vector Machines (SVM), the practical implications of this relationship have not been thoroughly explored. This paper pioneers an exploration in this domain, specifically focusing on the identification of Deep Support Vectors (DSVs) within deep learning models. We introduce the concept of DeepKKT conditions, an adaptation of the traditional Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions tailored for deep learning. Through empirical investigations, we illustrate that DSVs exhibit similarities to support vectors in SVM, offering a tangible method to interpret the decision-making criteria of models. Additionally, our findings demonstrate that models can be effectively reconstructed using DSVs, resembling the process in SVM. The code will be available.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [306]
标题:  Learning Traffic Signal Control via Genetic Programming
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17328
作者:  Xiao-Cheng Liao,  Yi Mei,  Mengjie Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The control of traffic signals is crucial for improving transportation efficiency. Recently, learning-based methods, especially Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL), garnered substantial success in the quest for more efficient traffic signal control strategies. However, the design of rewards in DRL highly demands domain knowledge to converge to an effective policy, and the final policy also presents difficulties in terms of explainability. In this work, a new learning-based method for signal control in complex intersections is proposed. In our approach, we design a concept of phase urgency for each signal phase. During signal transitions, the traffic light control strategy selects the next phase to be activated based on the phase urgency. We then proposed to represent the urgency function as an explainable tree structure. The urgency function can calculate the phase urgency for a specific phase based on the current road conditions. Genetic programming is adopted to perform gradient-free optimization of the urgency function. We test our algorithm on multiple public traffic signal control datasets. The experimental results indicate that the tree-shaped urgency function evolved by genetic programming outperforms the baselines, including a state-of-the-art method in the transportation field and a well-known DRL-based method.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [307]
标题:  Accuracy enhancement method for speech emotion recognition from  spectrogram using temporal frequency correlation and positional information  learning through knowledge transfer
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17327
作者:  Jeong-Yoon Kim,  Seung-Ho Lee
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a method to improve the accuracy of speech emotion recognition (SER) by using vision transformer (ViT) to attend to the correlation of frequency (y-axis) with time (x-axis) in spectrogram and transferring positional information between ViT through knowledge transfer. The proposed method has the following originality i) We use vertically segmented patches of log-Mel spectrogram to analyze the correlation of frequencies over time. This type of patch allows us to correlate the most relevant frequencies for a particular emotion with the time they were uttered. ii) We propose the use of image coordinate encoding, an absolute positional encoding suitable for ViT. By normalizing the x, y coordinates of the image to -1 to 1 and concatenating them to the image, we can effectively provide valid absolute positional information for ViT. iii) Through feature map matching, the locality and location information of the teacher network is effectively transmitted to the student network. Teacher network is a ViT that contains locality of convolutional stem and absolute position information through image coordinate encoding, and student network is a structure that lacks positional encoding in the basic ViT structure. In feature map matching stage, we train through the mean absolute error (L1 loss) to minimize the difference between the feature maps of the two networks. To validate the proposed method, three emotion datasets (SAVEE, EmoDB, and CREMA-D) consisting of speech were converted into log-Mel spectrograms for comparison experiments. The experimental results show that the proposed method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in terms of weighted accuracy while requiring significantly fewer floating point operations (FLOPs). Overall, the proposed method offers an promising solution for SER by providing improved efficiency and performance.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [308]
标题:  A novel directly energy-preserving method for charged particle dynamics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17322
作者:  Yexin Li,  Ping Jiang,  Haochen Li
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we apply the coordinate increment discrete gradient (CIDG) method to solve the Lorentz force system which can be written as a non-canonical Hamiltonian system. Then we can obtain a new energy-preserving CIDG-I method for the system. The CIDG-I method can combine with its adjoint method CIDG-II which is also a energy-preserving method to form a new method, namely CIDG-C method. The CIDG-C method is symmetrical and can conserve the Hamiltonian energy directly and exactly. With comparison to the well-used Boris method, numerical experiments indicate that the CIDG-C method holds advantage over the Boris method in terms of energy-conserving. The Fig. 5(b) in the original paper contains an error. We submit the correct Fig. 5(b) and an errata in this paper, which is described in remark4.1.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [309]
标题:  Leveraging Symmetry in RL-based Legged Locomotion Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17320
作者:  Zhi Su,  Xiaoyu Huang,  Daniel Ordoñez-Apraez,  Yunfei Li,  Zhongyu Li,  Qiayuan Liao,  Giulio Turrisi,  Massimiliano Pontil,  Claudio Semini,  Yi Wu,  Koushil Sreenath
备注:  
Abstract:Model-free reinforcement learning is a promising approach for autonomously solving challenging robotics control problems, but faces exploration difficulty without information of the robot's kinematics and dynamics morphology. The under-exploration of multiple modalities with symmetric states leads to behaviors that are often unnatural and sub-optimal. This issue becomes particularly pronounced in the context of robotic systems with morphological symmetries, such as legged robots for which the resulting asymmetric and aperiodic behaviors compromise performance, robustness, and transferability to real hardware. To mitigate this challenge, we can leverage symmetry to guide and improve the exploration in policy learning via equivariance/invariance constraints. In this paper, we investigate the efficacy of two approaches to incorporate symmetry: modifying the network architectures to be strictly equivariant/invariant, and leveraging data augmentation to approximate equivariant/invariant actor-critics. We implement the methods on challenging loco-manipulation and bipedal locomotion tasks and compare with an unconstrained baseline. We find that the strictly equivariant policy consistently outperforms other methods in sample efficiency and task performance in simulation. In addition, symmetry-incorporated approaches exhibit better gait quality, higher robustness and can be deployed zero-shot in real-world experiments.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [310]
标题:  JMultiWOZ: A Large-Scale Japanese Multi-Domain Task-Oriented Dialogue  Dataset
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17319
作者:  Atsumoto Ohashi,  Ryu Hirai,  Shinya Iizuka,  Ryuichiro Higashinaka
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Dialogue datasets are crucial for deep learning-based task-oriented dialogue system research. While numerous English language multi-domain task-oriented dialogue datasets have been developed and contributed to significant advancements in task-oriented dialogue systems, such a dataset does not exist in Japanese, and research in this area is limited compared to that in English. In this study, towards the advancement of research and development of task-oriented dialogue systems in Japanese, we constructed JMultiWOZ, the first Japanese language large-scale multi-domain task-oriented dialogue dataset. Using JMultiWOZ, we evaluated the dialogue state tracking and response generation capabilities of the state-of-the-art methods on the existing major English benchmark dataset MultiWOZ2.2 and the latest large language model (LLM)-based methods. Our evaluation results demonstrated that JMultiWOZ provides a benchmark that is on par with MultiWOZ2.2. In addition, through evaluation experiments of interactive dialogues with the models and human participants, we identified limitations in the task completion capabilities of LLMs in Japanese.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [311]
标题:  Project MOSLA: Recording Every Moment of Second Language Acquisition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17314
作者:  Masato Hagiwara,  Joshua Tanner
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Second language acquisition (SLA) is a complex and dynamic process. Many SLA studies that have attempted to record and analyze this process have typically focused on a single modality (e.g., textual output of learners), covered only a short period of time, and/or lacked control (e.g., failed to capture every aspect of the learning process). In Project MOSLA (Moments of Second Language Acquisition), we have created a longitudinal, multimodal, multilingual, and controlled dataset by inviting participants to learn one of three target languages (Arabic, Spanish, and Chinese) from scratch over a span of two years, exclusively through online instruction, and recording every lesson using Zoom. The dataset is semi-automatically annotated with speaker/language IDs and transcripts by both human annotators and fine-tuned state-of-the-art speech models. Our experiments reveal linguistic insights into learners' proficiency development over time, as well as the potential for automatically detecting the areas of focus on the screen purely from the unannotated multimodal data. Our dataset is freely available for research purposes and can serve as a valuable resource for a wide range of applications, including but not limited to SLA, proficiency assessment, language and speech processing, pedagogy, and multimodal learning analytics.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [312]
标题:  ALISA: Accelerating Large Language Model Inference via Sparsity-Aware KV  Caching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17312
作者:  Youpeng Zhao,  Di Wu,  Jun Wang
备注:  ISCA 2024
Abstract:The Transformer architecture has significantly advanced natural language processing (NLP) and has been foundational in developing large language models (LLMs) such as LLaMA and OPT, which have come to dominate a broad range of NLP tasks. Despite their superior accuracy, LLMs present unique challenges in practical inference, concerning the compute and memory-intensive nature. Thanks to the autoregressive characteristic of LLM inference, KV caching for the attention layers in Transformers can effectively accelerate LLM inference by substituting quadratic-complexity computation with linear-complexity memory accesses. Yet, this approach requires increasing memory as demand grows for processing longer sequences. The overhead leads to reduced throughput due to I/O bottlenecks and even out-of-memory errors, particularly on resource-constrained systems like a single commodity GPU. In this paper, we propose ALISA, a novel algorithm-system co-design solution to address the challenges imposed by KV caching. On the algorithm level, ALISA prioritizes tokens that are most important in generating a new token via a Sparse Window Attention (SWA) algorithm. SWA introduces high sparsity in attention layers and reduces the memory footprint of KV caching at negligible accuracy loss. On the system level, ALISA employs three-phase token-level dynamical scheduling and optimizes the trade-off between caching and recomputation, thus maximizing the overall performance in resource-constrained systems. In a single GPU-CPU system, we demonstrate that under varying workloads, ALISA improves the throughput of baseline systems such as FlexGen and vLLM by up to 3X and 1.9X, respectively.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Performance (cs.PF)

**编号**: [313]
标题:  Neural Multimodal Topic Modeling: A Comprehensive Evaluation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17308
作者:  Felipe González-Pizarro,  Giuseppe Carenini
备注:  Camera-Ready for LREC-COLING 2024 (Long Paper)
Abstract:Neural topic models can successfully find coherent and diverse topics in textual data. However, they are limited in dealing with multimodal datasets (e.g., images and text). This paper presents the first systematic and comprehensive evaluation of multimodal topic modeling of documents containing both text and images. In the process, we propose two novel topic modeling solutions and two novel evaluation metrics. Overall, our evaluation on an unprecedented rich and diverse collection of datasets indicates that both of our models generate coherent and diverse topics. Nevertheless, the extent to which one method outperforms the other depends on the metrics and dataset combinations, which suggests further exploration of hybrid solutions in the future. Notably, our succinct human evaluation aligns with the outcomes determined by our proposed metrics. This alignment not only reinforces the credibility of our metrics but also highlights the potential for their application in guiding future multimodal topic modeling endeavors.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [314]
标题:  HILL: Hierarchy-aware Information Lossless Contrastive Learning for  Hierarchical Text Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17307
作者:  He Zhu,  Junran Wu,  Ruomei Liu,  Yue Hou,  Ze Yuan,  Shangzhe Li,  Yicheng Pan,  Ke Xu
备注:  Accepted by NAACL 2024
Abstract:Existing self-supervised methods in natural language processing (NLP), especially hierarchical text classification (HTC), mainly focus on self-supervised contrastive learning, extremely relying on human-designed augmentation rules to generate contrastive samples, which can potentially corrupt or distort the original information. In this paper, we tend to investigate the feasibility of a contrastive learning scheme in which the semantic and syntactic information inherent in the input sample is adequately reserved in the contrastive samples and fused during the learning process. Specifically, we propose an information lossless contrastive learning strategy for HTC, namely \textbf{H}ierarchy-aware \textbf{I}nformation \textbf{L}ossless contrastive \textbf{L}earning (HILL), which consists of a text encoder representing the input document, and a structure encoder directly generating the positive sample. The structure encoder takes the document embedding as input, extracts the essential syntactic information inherent in the label hierarchy with the principle of structural entropy minimization, and injects the syntactic information into the text representation via hierarchical representation learning. Experiments on three common datasets are conducted to verify the superiority of HILL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [315]
标题:  Visual Hallucination: Definition, Quantification, and Prescriptive  Remediations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17306
作者:  Vipula Rawte,  Anku Rani,  Harshad Sharma,  Neeraj Anand,  Krishnav Rajbangshi,  Amit Sheth,  Amitava Das
备注:  
Abstract:The troubling rise of hallucination presents perhaps the most significant impediment to the advancement of responsible AI. In recent times, considerable research has focused on detecting and mitigating hallucination in Large Language Models (LLMs). However, it's worth noting that hallucination is also quite prevalent in Vision-Language models (VLMs). In this paper, we offer a fine-grained discourse on profiling VLM hallucination based on two tasks: i) image captioning, and ii) Visual Question Answering (VQA). We delineate eight fine-grained orientations of visual hallucination: i) Contextual Guessing, ii) Identity Incongruity, iii) Geographical Erratum, iv) Visual Illusion, v) Gender Anomaly, vi) VLM as Classifier, vii) Wrong Reading, and viii) Numeric Discrepancy. We curate Visual HallucInation eLiciTation (VHILT), a publicly available dataset comprising 2,000 samples generated using eight VLMs across two tasks of captioning and VQA along with human annotations for the categories as mentioned earlier.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [316]
标题:  Two Birds with One Stone: Differential Privacy by Low-power SRAM Memory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17303
作者:  Jianqing Liu,  Na Gong,  Hritom Das
备注:  15 pages, with 2 pages of Appendix
Abstract:The software-based implementation of differential privacy mechanisms has been shown to be neither friendly for lightweight devices nor secure against side-channel attacks. In this work, we aim to develop a hardware-based technique to achieve differential privacy by design. In contrary to the conventional software-based noise generation and injection process, our design realizes local differential privacy (LDP) by harnessing the inherent hardware noise into controlled LDP noise when data is stored in the memory. Specifically, the noise is tamed through a novel memory design and power downscaling technique, which leads to double-faceted gains in privacy and power efficiency. A well-round study that consists of theoretical design and analysis and chip implementation and experiments is presented. The results confirm that the developed technique is differentially private, saves 88.58% system power, speeds up software-based DP mechanisms by more than 10^6 times, while only incurring 2.46% chip overhead and 7.81% estimation errors in data recovery.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [317]
标题:  Physical 3D Adversarial Attacks against Monocular Depth Estimation in  Autonomous Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17301
作者:  Junhao Zheng,  Chenhao Lin,  Jiahao Sun,  Zhengyu Zhao,  Qian Li,  Chao Shen
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:Deep learning-based monocular depth estimation (MDE), extensively applied in autonomous driving, is known to be vulnerable to adversarial attacks. Previous physical attacks against MDE models rely on 2D adversarial patches, so they only affect a small, localized region in the MDE map but fail under various viewpoints. To address these limitations, we propose 3D Depth Fool (3D$^2$Fool), the first 3D texture-based adversarial attack against MDE models. 3D$^2$Fool is specifically optimized to generate 3D adversarial textures agnostic to model types of vehicles and to have improved robustness in bad weather conditions, such as rain and fog. Experimental results validate the superior performance of our 3D$^2$Fool across various scenarios, including vehicles, MDE models, weather conditions, and viewpoints. Real-world experiments with printed 3D textures on physical vehicle models further demonstrate that our 3D$^2$Fool can cause an MDE error of over 10 meters.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [318]
标题:  Decoding Probing: Revealing Internal Linguistic Structures in Neural  Language Models using Minimal Pairs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17299
作者:  Linyang He,  Peili Chen,  Ercong Nie,  Yuanning Li,  Jonathan R. Brennan
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Inspired by cognitive neuroscience studies, we introduce a novel `decoding probing' method that uses minimal pairs benchmark (BLiMP) to probe internal linguistic characteristics in neural language models layer by layer. By treating the language model as the `brain' and its representations as `neural activations', we decode grammaticality labels of minimal pairs from the intermediate layers' representations. This approach reveals: 1) Self-supervised language models capture abstract linguistic structures in intermediate layers that GloVe and RNN language models cannot learn. 2) Information about syntactic grammaticality is robustly captured through the first third layers of GPT-2 and also distributed in later layers. As sentence complexity increases, more layers are required for learning grammatical capabilities. 3) Morphological and semantics/syntax interface-related features are harder to capture than syntax. 4) For Transformer-based models, both embeddings and attentions capture grammatical features but show distinct patterns. Different attention heads exhibit similar tendencies toward various linguistic phenomena, but with varied contributions.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)

**编号**: [319]
标题:  InternLM2 Technical Report
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17297
作者:  Zheng Cai,  Maosong Cao,  Haojiong Chen,  Kai Chen,  Keyu Chen,  Xin Chen,  Xun Chen,  Zehui Chen,  Zhi Chen,  Pei Chu,  Xiaoyi Dong,  Haodong Duan,  Qi Fan,  Zhaoye Fei,  Yang Gao,  Jiaye Ge,  Chenya Gu,  Yuzhe Gu,  Tao Gui,  Aijia Guo,  Qipeng Guo,  Conghui He,  Yingfan Hu,  Ting Huang,  Tao Jiang,  Penglong Jiao,  Zhenjiang Jin,  Zhikai Lei,  Jiaxing Li,  Jingwen Li,  Linyang Li,  Shuaibin Li,  Wei Li,  Yining Li,  Hongwei Liu,  Jiangning Liu,  Jiawei Hong,  Kaiwen Liu,  Kuikun Liu,  Xiaoran Liu,  Chengqi Lv,  Haijun Lv,  Kai Lv,  Li Ma,  Runyuan Ma,  Zerun Ma,  Wenchang Ning,  Linke Ouyang,  Jiantao Qiu,  Yuan Qu,  Fukai Shang,  Yunfan Shao,  Demin Song,  Zifan Song,  Zhihao Sui,  Peng Sun,  Yu Sun,  Huanze Tang,  Bin Wang,  Guoteng Wang,  Jiaqi Wang,  Jiayu Wang,  Rui Wang,  Yudong Wang,  Ziyi Wang,  Xingjian Wei,  Qizhen Weng,  Fan Wu,  Yingtong Xiong,  et al. (31 additional authors not shown)
备注:  
Abstract:The evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and GPT-4 has sparked discussions on the advent of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). However, replicating such advancements in open-source models has been challenging. This paper introduces InternLM2, an open-source LLM that outperforms its predecessors in comprehensive evaluations across 6 dimensions and 30 benchmarks, long-context modeling, and open-ended subjective evaluations through innovative pre-training and optimization techniques. The pre-training process of InternLM2 is meticulously detailed, highlighting the preparation of diverse data types including text, code, and long-context data. InternLM2 efficiently captures long-term dependencies, initially trained on 4k tokens before advancing to 32k tokens in pre-training and fine-tuning stages, exhibiting remarkable performance on the 200k ``Needle-in-a-Haystack" test. InternLM2 is further aligned using Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and a novel Conditional Online Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (COOL RLHF) strategy that addresses conflicting human preferences and reward hacking. By releasing InternLM2 models in different training stages and model sizes, we provide the community with insights into the model's evolution.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [320]
标题:  Hawk: Accurate and Fast Privacy-Preserving Machine Learning Using Secure  Lookup Table Computation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17296
作者:  Hamza Saleem,  Amir Ziashahabi,  Muhammad Naveed,  Salman Avestimehr
备注:  Accepted at Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS) 2024
Abstract:Training machine learning models on data from multiple entities without direct data sharing can unlock applications otherwise hindered by business, legal, or ethical constraints. In this work, we design and implement new privacy-preserving machine learning protocols for logistic regression and neural network models. We adopt a two-server model where data owners secret-share their data between two servers that train and evaluate the model on the joint data. A significant source of inefficiency and inaccuracy in existing methods arises from using Yao's garbled circuits to compute non-linear activation functions. We propose new methods for computing non-linear functions based on secret-shared lookup tables, offering both computational efficiency and improved accuracy. Beyond introducing leakage-free techniques, we initiate the exploration of relaxed security measures for privacy-preserving machine learning. Instead of claiming that the servers gain no knowledge during the computation, we contend that while some information is revealed about access patterns to lookup tables, it maintains epsilon-dX-privacy. Leveraging this relaxation significantly reduces the computational resources needed for training. We present new cryptographic protocols tailored to this relaxed security paradigm and define and analyze the leakage. Our evaluations show that our logistic regression protocol is up to 9x faster, and the neural network training is up to 688x faster than SecureML. Notably, our neural network achieves an accuracy of 96.6% on MNIST in 15 epochs, outperforming prior benchmarks that capped at 93.4% using the same architecture.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [321]
标题:  Linear Numerical Schemes for a $\textbf{Q}$-Tensor System for Nematic  Liquid Crystals
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17289
作者:  Justin Swain,  Giordano Tierra
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we present three linear numerical schemes to model nematic liquid crystals using the Landau-de Gennes $\textbf{Q}$-tensor theory. The first scheme is based on using a truncation procedure of the energy, which allows for an unconditionally energy stable first order accurate decoupled scheme. The second scheme uses a modified second order accurate optimal dissipation algorithm, which gives a second order accurate coupled scheme. Finally, the third scheme uses a new idea to decouple the unknowns from the second scheme which allows us to obtain accurate dynamics while improving computational efficiency. We present several numerical experiments to offer a comparative study of the accuracy, efficiency and the ability of the numerical schemes to represent realistic dynamics.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [322]
标题:  Sparse-Graph-Enabled Formation Planning for Large-Scale Aerial Swarms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17288
作者:  Yuan Zhou,  Lun Quan,  Chao Xu,  Guangtong Xu,  Fei Gao
备注:  
Abstract:The formation trajectory planning using complete graphs to model collaborative constraints becomes computationally intractable as the number of drones increases due to the curse of dimensionality. To tackle this issue, this paper presents a sparse graph construction method for formation planning to realize better efficiency-performance trade-off. Firstly, a sparsification mechanism for complete graphs is designed to ensure the global rigidity of sparsified graphs, which is a necessary condition for uniquely corresponding to a geometric shape. Secondly, a good sparse graph is constructed to preserve the main structural feature of complete graphs sufficiently. Since the graph-based formation constraint is described by Laplacian matrix, the sparse graph construction problem is equivalent to submatrix selection, which has combinatorial time complexity and needs a scoring metric. Via comparative simulations, the Max-Trace matrix-revealing metric shows the promising performance. The sparse graph is integrated into the formation planning. Simulation results with 72 drones in complex environments demonstrate that when preserving 30\% connection edges, our method has comparative formation error and recovery performance w.r.t. complete graphs. Meanwhile, the planning efficiency is improved by approximate an order of magnitude. Benchmark comparisons and ablation studies are conducted to fully validate the merits of our method.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [323]
标题:  Not All Federated Learning Algorithms Are Created Equal: A Performance  Evaluation Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17287
作者:  Gustav A. Baumgart,  Jaemin Shin,  Ali Payani,  Myungjin Lee,  Ramana Rao Kompella
备注:  
Abstract:Federated Learning (FL) emerged as a practical approach to training a model from decentralized data. The proliferation of FL led to the development of numerous FL algorithms and mechanisms. Many prior efforts have given their primary focus on accuracy of those approaches, but there exists little understanding of other aspects such as computational overheads, performance and training stability, etc. To bridge this gap, we conduct extensive performance evaluation on several canonical FL algorithms (FedAvg, FedProx, FedYogi, FedAdam, SCAFFOLD, and FedDyn) by leveraging an open-source federated learning framework called Flame. Our comprehensive measurement study reveals that no single algorithm works best across different performance metrics. A few key observations are: (1) While some state-of-the-art algorithms achieve higher accuracy than others, they incur either higher computation overheads (FedDyn) or communication overheads (SCAFFOLD). (2) Recent algorithms present smaller standard deviation in accuracy across clients than FedAvg, indicating that the advanced algorithms' performances are stable. (3) However, algorithms such as FedDyn and SCAFFOLD are more prone to catastrophic failures without the support of additional techniques such as gradient clipping. We hope that our empirical study can help the community to build best practices in evaluating FL algorithms.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [324]
标题:  Cognitively Biased Users Interacting with Algorithmically Biased Results  in Whole-Session Search on Controversial Topics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17286
作者:  Ben Wang,  Jiqun Liu
备注:  
Abstract:When interacting with information retrieval (IR) systems, users, affected by confirmation biases, tend to select search results that confirm their existing beliefs on socially significant contentious issues. To understand the judgments and attitude changes of users searching online, our study examined how cognitively biased users interact with algorithmically biased search engine result pages (SERPs). We designed three-query search sessions on debated topics under various bias conditions. We recruited 1,321 crowdsourcing participants and explored their attitude changes, search interactions, and the effects of confirmation bias. Three key findings emerged: 1) most attitude changes occur in the initial query of a search session; 2) confirmation bias and result presentation on SERPs affect search behaviors in the current query and perceived familiarity with clicked results in subsequent queries. The bias position also affect attitude changes of users with lower perceived openness to conflicting opinions; 3) Interactions in the first query and and dwell time throughout the session are associated with users' attitude changes in different forms. Our study goes beyond traditional simulation-based evaluation settings and simulated rational users, sheds light on the mixed effects of human biases and algorithmic biases in controversial information retrieval tasks, and can inform the design of bias-aware user models, human-centered bias mitigation techniques, and socially responsible intelligent IR systems.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [325]
标题:  Common Ground Tracking in Multimodal Dialogue
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17284
作者:  Ibrahim Khebour,  Kenneth Lai,  Mariah Bradford,  Yifan Zhu,  Richard Brutti,  Christopher Tam,  Jingxuan Tu,  Benjamin Ibarra,  Nathaniel Blanchard,  Nikhil Krishnaswamy,  James Pustejovsky
备注:  
Abstract:Within Dialogue Modeling research in AI and NLP, considerable attention has been spent on ``dialogue state tracking'' (DST), which is the ability to update the representations of the speaker's needs at each turn in the dialogue by taking into account the past dialogue moves and history. Less studied but just as important to dialogue modeling, however, is ``common ground tracking'' (CGT), which identifies the shared belief space held by all of the participants in a task-oriented dialogue: the task-relevant propositions all participants accept as true. In this paper we present a method for automatically identifying the current set of shared beliefs and ``questions under discussion'' (QUDs) of a group with a shared goal. We annotate a dataset of multimodal interactions in a shared physical space with speech transcriptions, prosodic features, gestures, actions, and facets of collaboration, and operationalize these features for use in a deep neural model to predict moves toward construction of common ground. Model outputs cascade into a set of formal closure rules derived from situated evidence and belief axioms and update operations. We empirically assess the contribution of each feature type toward successful construction of common ground relative to ground truth, establishing a benchmark in this novel, challenging task.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [326]
标题:  Automate Knowledge Concept Tagging on Math Questions with LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17281
作者:  Hang Li,  Tianlong Xu,  Jiliang Tang,  Qingsong Wen
备注:  7 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:Knowledge concept tagging for questions plays a crucial role in contemporary intelligent educational applications, including learning progress diagnosis, practice question recommendations, and course content organization. Traditionally, these annotations have been conducted manually with help from pedagogical experts, as the task requires not only a strong semantic understanding of both question stems and knowledge definitions but also deep insights into connecting question-solving logic with corresponding knowledge concepts. In this paper, we explore automating the tagging task using Large Language Models (LLMs), in response to the inability of prior manual methods to meet the rapidly growing demand for concept tagging in questions posed by advanced educational applications. Moreover, the zero/few-shot learning capability of LLMs makes them well-suited for application in educational scenarios, which often face challenges in collecting large-scale, expertise-annotated datasets. By conducting extensive experiments with a variety of representative LLMs, we demonstrate that LLMs are a promising tool for concept tagging in math questions. Furthermore, through case studies examining the results from different LLMs, we draw some empirical conclusions about the key factors for success in applying LLMs to the automatic concept tagging task.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [327]
标题:  Relational Network Verification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17277
作者:  Xieyang Xu (1),  Yifei Yuan (2),  Zachary Kincaid (3),  Arvind Krishnamurthy (1),  Ratul Mahajan (1),  David Walker (3),  Ennan Zhai (2) ((1) University of Washington, (2) Alibaba Cloud, (3) Princeton University)
备注:  
Abstract:Relational network verification is a new approach to validating network changes. In contrast to traditional network verification, which analyzes specifications for a single network snapshot, relational network verification analyzes specifications concerning two network snapshots (e.g., pre- and post-change snapshots) and captures their similarities and differences. Relational change specifications are compact and precise because they specify the flows or paths that change between snapshots and then simply mandate that other behaviors of the network "stay the same", without enumerating them. To achieve similar guarantees, single-snapshot specifications need to enumerate all flow and path behaviors that are not expected to change, so we can check that nothing has accidentally changed. Thus, precise single-snapshot specifications are proportional to network size, which makes them impractical to generate for many real-world networks. To demonstrate the value of relational reasoning, we develop a high-level relational specification language and a tool called Rela to validate network changes. Rela first compiles input specifications and network snapshot representations to finite state transducers. It then checks compliance using decision procedures for automaton equivalence. Our experiments using data on complex changes to a global backbone (with over 10^3 routers) find that Rela specifications need fewer than 10 terms for 93% of them and it validates 80% of them within 20 minutes.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [328]
标题:  Optimal Operation of Reconfigurable Active Distribution Networks Aiming  at Resiliency Improvement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17272
作者:  Saeed Behzadi,  Amir Bagheri,  Abbas Rabiee
备注:  
Abstract:As natural disasters bring about power outage and financial losses, network resiliency is an important challenge for distribution network operators (DNOs). On the other side, power loss reduction during normal operating condition is a major concern of DNOs. In this paper, optimal scheduling of active distribution network (ADN) is addressed through simultaneous minimization of power loss in normal condition and load shedding in critical condition after natural disasters. A new formulation is developed for the network reconfiguration to optimize the system operation in both normal and emergency conditions in the presence of conventional and renewable-energy-based distributed generation (DG) as well as energy storage systems (ESSs). The line flow based (LFB) algorithm is used for the AC power flow calculations, and all the developed relations have been convexified to construct a mixed-integer quadratically-constrained programming (MIQCP) optimization model. The simulations have been implemented on the IEEE 33-bus system in GAMS, and the results are investigated.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [329]
标题:  Human Stress Response and Perceived Safety during Encounters with  Quadruped Robots
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17270
作者:  Ryan Gupta,  Hyonyoung Shin,  Emily Norman,  Keri K. Stephens,  Nanshu Lu,  Luis Sentis
备注:  7 pages, 7 figs, 5 tables
Abstract:Despite the rise of mobile robot deployments in home and work settings, perceived safety of users and bystanders is understudied in the human-robot interaction (HRI) literature. To address this, we present a study designed to identify elements of a human-robot encounter that correlate with observed stress response. Stress is a key component of perceived safety and is strongly associated with human physiological response. In this study a Boston Dynamics Spot and a Unitree Go1 navigate autonomously through a shared environment occupied by human participants wearing multimodal physiological sensors to track their electrocardiography (ECG) and electrodermal activity (EDA). The encounters are varied through several trials and participants self-rate their stress levels after each encounter. The study resulted in a multidimensional dataset archiving various objective and subjective aspects of a human-robot encounter, containing insights for understanding perceived safety in such encounters. To this end, acute stress responses were decoded from the human participants' ECG and EDA and compared across different human-robot encounter conditions. Statistical analysis of data indicate that on average (1) participants feel more stress during encounters compared to baselines, (2) participants feel more stress encountering multiple robots compared to a single robot and (3) participants stress increases during navigation behavior compared with search behavior.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [330]
标题:  Exploring CausalWorld: Enhancing robotic manipulation via knowledge  transfer and curriculum learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17266
作者:  Xinrui Wang,  Yan Jin
备注:  
Abstract:This study explores a learning-based tri-finger robotic arm manipulating task, which requires complex movements and coordination among the fingers. By employing reinforcement learning, we train an agent to acquire the necessary skills for proficient manipulation. To enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the learning process, two knowledge transfer strategies, fine-tuning and curriculum learning, were utilized within the soft actor-critic architecture. Fine-tuning allows the agent to leverage pre-trained knowledge and adapt it to new tasks. Several variations like model transfer, policy transfer, and across-task transfer were implemented and evaluated. To eliminate the need for pretraining, curriculum learning decomposes the advanced task into simpler, progressive stages, mirroring how humans learn. The number of learning stages, the context of the sub-tasks, and the transition timing were found to be the critical design parameters. The key factors of two learning strategies and corresponding effects were explored in context-aware and context-unaware scenarios, enabling us to identify the scenarios where the methods demonstrate optimal performance, derive conclusive insights, and contribute to a broader range of learning-based engineering applications.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [331]
标题:  Cache-Enabled Millimetre-Wave Fluid Antenna Systems: Modeling and  Performance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17265
作者:  Farshad Rostami Ghadi,  Kai-Kit Wong,  Kin-Fai Tong,  Yangyang Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:This letter investigates the performance of content caching in a heterogeneous cellular network (HetNet) consisting of fluid antenna system (FAS)-equipped mobile users (MUs) and millimeter-wave (mm-wave) single-antenna small base stations (SBSs), distributed according to the independent homogeneous Poisson point processes (HPPP). In particular, it is assumed that the most popular contents are cached in the SBSs to serve the FAS-equipped MUs requests. To assess the system performance, we derive compact expressions for the successful content delivery probability (SCDP) and the content delivery delay (CDD) using the Gauss-Laguerre quadrature technique. Our numerical results show that the performance of cache-enabled mm-wave HetNets can be greatly improved, when the FAS is utilized at the MUs instead of traditional fixed-antenna system deployment.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [332]
标题:  EXPLORA: A teacher-apprentice methodology for eliciting natural  child-computer interactions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17264
作者:  Vanessa Figueiredo,  Catherine Ann Cameron
备注:  
Abstract:Investigating child-computer interactions within their contexts is vital for designing technology that caters to children's needs. However, determining what aspects of context are relevant for designing child-centric technology remains a challenge. We introduce EXPLORA, a multimodal, multistage online methodology comprising three pivotal stages: (1) building a teacher-apprentice relationship,(2) learning from child-teachers, and (3) assessing and reinforcing researcher-apprentice learning. Central to EXPLORA is the collection of attitudinal data through pre-observation interviews, offering researchers a deeper understanding of children's characteristics and contexts. This informs subsequent online observations, allowing researchers to focus on frequent interactions. Furthermore, researchers can validate preliminary assumptions with children. A means-ends analysis framework aids in the systematic analysis of data, shedding light on context, agency and homework-information searching processes children employ in their activities. To illustrate EXPLORA's capabilities, we present nine single case studies investigating Brazilian child-caregiver dyads' (children ages 9-11) use of technology in homework information-searching.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [333]
标题:  Distributed Simulation of Large Multi-body Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17261
作者:  Manas Kale,  Paul G. Kry
备注:  For associated video, see this https URL
Abstract:We present a technique designed for parallelizing large rigid body simulations, capable of exploiting multiple CPU cores within a computer and across a network. Our approach can be applied to simulate both unilateral and bilateral constraints, requiring straightforward modifications to the underlying physics engine. Starting from an approximate partitioning, we identify interface bodies and add them to overlapping sets such that they are simulated by multiple workers. At each timestep, we blend the states of overlap bodies using weights based on graph geodesic distances within the constraint graph. The use of overlap simulation also allows us to perform load balancing using efficient local evaluations of the constraint graph. We demonstrate our technique's scalability and load-balancing capabilities using several large-scale scenes.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [334]
标题:  Diffusion-based Negative Sampling on Graphs for Link Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17259
作者:  Trung-Kien Nguyen,  Yuan Fang
备注:  Accepted in the TheWebConf 2024
Abstract:Link prediction is a fundamental task for graph analysis with important applications on the Web, such as social network analysis and recommendation systems, etc. Modern graph link prediction methods often employ a contrastive approach to learn robust node representations, where negative sampling is pivotal. Typical negative sampling methods aim to retrieve hard examples based on either predefined heuristics or automatic adversarial approaches, which might be inflexible or difficult to control. Furthermore, in the context of link prediction, most previous methods sample negative nodes from existing substructures of the graph, missing out on potentially more optimal samples in the latent space. To address these issues, we investigate a novel strategy of multi-level negative sampling that enables negative node generation with flexible and controllable ``hardness'' levels from the latent space. Our method, called Conditional Diffusion-based Multi-level Negative Sampling (DMNS), leverages the Markov chain property of diffusion models to generate negative nodes in multiple levels of variable hardness and reconcile them for effective graph link prediction. We further demonstrate that DMNS follows the sub-linear positivity principle for robust negative sampling. Extensive experiments on several benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of DMNS.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [335]
标题:  Latency-Aware Generative Semantic Communications with Pre-Trained  Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17256
作者:  Li Qiao,  Mahdi Boloursaz Mashhadi,  Zhen Gao,  Chuan Heng Foh,  Pei Xiao,  Mehdi Bennis
备注:  
Abstract:Generative foundation AI models have recently shown great success in synthesizing natural signals with high perceptual quality using only textual prompts and conditioning signals to guide the generation process. This enables semantic communications at extremely low data rates in future wireless networks. In this paper, we develop a latency-aware semantic communications framework with pre-trained generative models. The transmitter performs multi-modal semantic decomposition on the input signal and transmits each semantic stream with the appropriate coding and communication schemes based on the intent. For the prompt, we adopt a re-transmission-based scheme to ensure reliable transmission, and for the other semantic modalities we use an adaptive modulation/coding scheme to achieve robustness to the changing wireless channel. Furthermore, we design a semantic and latency-aware scheme to allocate transmission power to different semantic modalities based on their importance subjected to semantic quality constraints. At the receiver, a pre-trained generative model synthesizes a high fidelity signal using the received multi-stream semantics. Simulation results demonstrate ultra-low-rate, low-latency, and channel-adaptive semantic communications.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [336]
标题:  A Hybrid Approach To Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis Using Transfer  Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17254
作者:  Gaurav Negi,  Rajdeep Sarkar,  Omnia Zayed,  Paul Buitelaar
备注:  
Abstract:Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA) aims to identify terms or multiword expressions (MWEs) on which sentiments are expressed and the sentiment polarities associated with them. The development of supervised models has been at the forefront of research in this area. However, training these models requires the availability of manually annotated datasets which is both expensive and time-consuming. Furthermore, the available annotated datasets are tailored to a specific domain, language, and text type. In this work, we address this notable challenge in current state-of-the-art ABSA research. We propose a hybrid approach for Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis using transfer learning. The approach focuses on generating weakly-supervised annotations by exploiting the strengths of both large language models (LLM) and traditional syntactic dependencies. We utilise syntactic dependency structures of sentences to complement the annotations generated by LLMs, as they may overlook domain-specific aspect terms. Extensive experimentation on multiple datasets is performed to demonstrate the efficacy of our hybrid method for the tasks of aspect term extraction and aspect sentiment classification. Keywords: Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis, Syntactic Parsing, large language model (LLM)
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [337]
标题:  Impact-Aware Bimanual Catching of Large-Momentum Objects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17249
作者:  Lei Yan,  Theodoros Stouraitis,  João Moura,  Wenfu Xu,  Michael Gienger,  Sethu Vijayakumar
备注:  
Abstract:This paper investigates one of the most challenging tasks in dynamic manipulation -- catching large-momentum moving objects. Beyond the realm of quasi-static manipulation, dealing with highly dynamic objects can significantly improve the robot's capability of interacting with its surrounding environment. Yet, the inevitable motion mismatch between the fast moving object and the approaching robot will result in large impulsive forces, which lead to the unstable contacts and irreversible damage to both the object and the robot. To address the above problems, we propose an online optimization framework to: 1) estimate and predict the linear and angular motion of the object; 2) search and select the optimal contact locations across every surface of the object to mitigate impact through sequential quadratic programming (SQP); 3) simultaneously optimize the end-effector motion, stiffness, and contact force for both robots using multi-mode trajectory optimization (MMTO); and 4) realise the impact-aware catching motion on the compliant robotic system based on indirect force controller. We validate the impulse distribution, contact selection, and impact-aware MMTO algorithms in simulation and demonstrate the benefits of the proposed framework in real-world experiments including catching large-momentum moving objects with well-defined motion, constrained motion and free-flying motion.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [338]
标题:  DASA: Delay-Adaptive Multi-Agent Stochastic Approximation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17247
作者:  Nicolo Dal Fabbro,  Arman Adibi,  H. Vincent Poor,  Sanjeev R. Kulkarni,  Aritra Mitra,  George J. Pappas
备注:  
Abstract:We consider a setting in which $N$ agents aim to speedup a common Stochastic Approximation (SA) problem by acting in parallel and communicating with a central server. We assume that the up-link transmissions to the server are subject to asynchronous and potentially unbounded time-varying delays. To mitigate the effect of delays and stragglers while reaping the benefits of distributed computation, we propose \texttt{DASA}, a Delay-Adaptive algorithm for multi-agent Stochastic Approximation. We provide a finite-time analysis of \texttt{DASA} assuming that the agents' stochastic observation processes are independent Markov chains. Significantly advancing existing results, \texttt{DASA} is the first algorithm whose convergence rate depends only on the mixing time $\tmix$ and on the average delay $\tau_{avg}$ while jointly achieving an $N$-fold convergence speedup under Markovian sampling. Our work is relevant for various SA applications, including multi-agent and distributed temporal difference (TD) learning, Q-learning and stochastic optimization with correlated data.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [339]
标题:  TwoStep: Multi-agent Task Planning using Classical Planners and Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17246
作者:  Ishika Singh,  David Traum,  Jesse Thomason
备注:  12 pages
Abstract:Classical planning formulations like the Planning Domain Definition Language (PDDL) admit action sequences guaranteed to achieve a goal state given an initial state if any are possible. However, reasoning problems defined in PDDL do not capture temporal aspects of action taking, for example that two agents in the domain can execute an action simultaneously if postconditions of each do not interfere with preconditions of the other. A human expert can decompose a goal into largely independent constituent parts and assign each agent to one of these subgoals to take advantage of simultaneous actions for faster execution of plan steps, each using only single agent planning. By contrast, large language models (LLMs) used for directly inferring plan steps do not guarantee execution success, but do leverage commonsense reasoning to assemble action sequences. We combine the strengths of classical planning and LLMs by approximating human intuitions for two-agent planning goal decomposition. We demonstrate that LLM-based goal decomposition leads to faster planning times than solving multi-agent PDDL problems directly while simultaneously achieving fewer plan execution steps than a single agent plan alone and preserving execution success. Additionally, we find that LLM-based approximations of subgoals can achieve similar multi-agent execution steps than those specified by human experts. Website and resources at this https URL
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [340]
标题:  SPLICE: A Singleton-Enhanced PipeLIne for Coreference REsolution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17245
作者:  Yilun Zhu,  Siyao Peng,  Sameer Pradhan,  Amir Zeldes
备注:  Accepted to LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Singleton mentions, i.e.~entities mentioned only once in a text, are important to how humans understand discourse from a theoretical perspective. However previous attempts to incorporate their detection in end-to-end neural coreference resolution for English have been hampered by the lack of singleton mention spans in the OntoNotes benchmark. This paper addresses this limitation by combining predicted mentions from existing nested NER systems and features derived from OntoNotes syntax trees. With this approach, we create a near approximation of the OntoNotes dataset with all singleton mentions, achieving ~94% recall on a sample of gold singletons. We then propose a two-step neural mention and coreference resolution system, named SPLICE, and compare its performance to the end-to-end approach in two scenarios: the OntoNotes test set and the out-of-domain (OOD) OntoGUM corpus. Results indicate that reconstructed singleton training yields results comparable to end-to-end systems for OntoNotes, while improving OOD stability (+1.1 avg. F1). We conduct error analysis for mention detection and delve into its impact on coreference clustering, revealing that precision improvements deliver more substantial benefits than increases in recall for resolving coreference chains.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [341]
标题:  Review Ecosystems to access Educational XR Experiences: a Scoping Review
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17243
作者:  Shaun Bangay,  Adam P.A. Cardilini,  Sophie McKenzie,  Maria Nicholas,  Manjeet Singh
备注:  29 pages, 13 figures
Abstract:Educators, developers, and other stakeholders face challenges when creating, adapting, and utilizing virtual and augmented reality (XR) experiences for teaching curriculum topics. User created reviews of these applications provide important information about their relevance and effectiveness in supporting achievement of educational outcomes. To make these reviews accessible, relevant, and useful, they must be readily available and presented in a format that supports decision-making by educators. This paper identifies best practices for developing a new review ecosystem by analyzing existing approaches to providing reviews of interactive experiences. It focuses on the form and format of these reviews, as well as the mechanisms for sharing information about experiences and identifying which ones are most effective. The paper also examines the incentives that drive review creation and maintenance, ensuring that new experiences receive attention from reviewers and that relevant information is updated when necessary. The strategies and opportunities for developing an educational XR (eduXR) review ecosystem include methods for measuring properties such as quality metrics, engaging a broad range of stakeholders in the review process, and structuring the system as a closed loop managed by feedback and incentive structures to ensure stability and productivity. Computing educators are well-positioned to lead the development of these review ecosystems, which can relate XR experiences to the potential opportunities for teaching and learning that they offer.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [342]
标题:  The Role of $n$-gram Smoothing in the Age of Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17240
作者:  Luca Malagutti,  Andrius Buinovskij,  Anej Svete,  Clara Meister,  Afra Amini,  Ryan Cotterell
备注:  
Abstract:For nearly three decades, language models derived from the $n$-gram assumption held the state of the art on the task. The key to their success lay in the application of various smoothing techniques that served to combat overfitting. However, when neural language models toppled $n$-gram models as the best performers, $n$-gram smoothing techniques became less relevant. Indeed, it would hardly be an understatement to suggest that the line of inquiry into $n$-gram smoothing techniques became dormant. This paper re-opens the role classical $n$-gram smoothing techniques may play in the age of neural language models. First, we draw a formal equivalence between label smoothing, a popular regularization technique for neural language models, and add-$\lambda$ smoothing. Second, we derive a generalized framework for converting \emph{any} $n$-gram smoothing technique into a regularizer compatible with neural language models. Our empirical results find that our novel regularizers are comparable to and, indeed, sometimes outperform label smoothing on language modeling and machine translation.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [343]
标题:  Manufacturing Service Capability Prediction with Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17239
作者:  Yunqing Li,  Xiaorui Liu,  Binil Starly
备注:  
Abstract:In the current landscape, the predominant methods for identifying manufacturing capabilities from manufacturers rely heavily on keyword matching and semantic matching. However, these methods often fall short by either overlooking valuable hidden information or misinterpreting critical data. Consequently, such approaches result in an incomplete identification of manufacturers' capabilities. This underscores the pressing need for data-driven solutions to enhance the accuracy and completeness of manufacturing capability identification. To address the need, this study proposes a Graph Neural Network-based method for manufacturing service capability identification over a knowledge graph. To enhance the identification performance, this work introduces a novel approach that involves aggregating information from the graph nodes' neighborhoods as well as oversampling the graph data, which can be effectively applied across a wide range of practical scenarios. Evaluations conducted on a Manufacturing Service Knowledge Graph and subsequent ablation studies demonstrate the efficacy and robustness of the proposed approach. This study not only contributes a innovative method for inferring manufacturing service capabilities but also significantly augments the quality of Manufacturing Service Knowledge Graphs.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [344]
标题:  Temporal and Semantic Evaluation Metrics for Foundation Models in  Post-Hoc Analysis of Robotic Sub-tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17238
作者:  Jonathan Salfity,  Selma Wanna,  Minkyu Choi,  Mitch Pryor
备注:  8 pages, 3 figures. IROS 2024 Submission
Abstract:Recent works in Task and Motion Planning (TAMP) show that training control policies on language-supervised robot trajectories with quality labeled data markedly improves agent task success rates. However, the scarcity of such data presents a significant hurdle to extending these methods to general use cases. To address this concern, we present an automated framework to decompose trajectory data into temporally bounded and natural language-based descriptive sub-tasks by leveraging recent prompting strategies for Foundation Models (FMs) including both Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vision Language Models (VLMs). Our framework provides both time-based and language-based descriptions for lower-level sub-tasks that comprise full trajectories. To rigorously evaluate the quality of our automatic labeling framework, we contribute an algorithm SIMILARITY to produce two novel metrics, temporal similarity and semantic similarity. The metrics measure the temporal alignment and semantic fidelity of language descriptions between two sub-task decompositions, namely an FM sub-task decomposition prediction and a ground-truth sub-task decomposition. We present scores for temporal similarity and semantic similarity above 90%, compared to 30% of a randomized baseline, for multiple robotic environments, demonstrating the effectiveness of our proposed framework. Our results enable building diverse, large-scale, language-supervised datasets for improved robotic TAMP.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [345]
标题:  DreamPolisher: Towards High-Quality Text-to-3D Generation via Geometric  Diffusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17237
作者:  Yuanze Lin,  Ronald Clark,  Philip Torr
备注:  Project webpage: this https URL
Abstract:We present DreamPolisher, a novel Gaussian Splatting based method with geometric guidance, tailored to learn cross-view consistency and intricate detail from textual descriptions. While recent progress on text-to-3D generation methods have been promising, prevailing methods often fail to ensure view-consistency and textural richness. This problem becomes particularly noticeable for methods that work with text input alone. To address this, we propose a two-stage Gaussian Splatting based approach that enforces geometric consistency among views. Initially, a coarse 3D generation undergoes refinement via geometric optimization. Subsequently, we use a ControlNet driven refiner coupled with the geometric consistency term to improve both texture fidelity and overall consistency of the generated 3D asset. Empirical evaluations across diverse textual prompts spanning various object categories demonstrate the efficacy of DreamPolisher in generating consistent and realistic 3D objects, aligning closely with the semantics of the textual instructions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [346]
标题:  Neural Image Compression with Quantization Rectifier
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17236
作者:  Wei Luo,  Bo Chen
备注:  Published at International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) Neural Compression Workshop 2023, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. PMLR 202, 2023. Copyright 2023 by the authors
Abstract:Neural image compression has been shown to outperform traditional image codecs in terms of rate-distortion performance. However, quantization introduces errors in the compression process, which can degrade the quality of the compressed image. Existing approaches address the train-test mismatch problem incurred during quantization, the random impact of quantization on the expressiveness of image features is still unsolved. This paper presents a novel quantization rectifier (QR) method for image compression that leverages image feature correlation to mitigate the impact of quantization. Our method designs a neural network architecture that predicts unquantized features from the quantized ones, preserving feature expressiveness for better image reconstruction quality. We develop a soft-to-predictive training technique to integrate QR into existing neural image codecs. In evaluation, we integrate QR into state-of-the-art neural image codecs and compare enhanced models and baselines on the widely-used Kodak benchmark. The results show consistent coding efficiency improvement by QR with a negligible increase in the running time.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [347]
标题:  A Discrete-Time Least-Squares Adaptive State Tracking Control Scheme  with A Mobile-Robot System Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17235
作者:  Qianhong Zhao,  Gang Tao
备注:  
Abstract:This paper develops an adaptive state tracking control scheme for discrete-time systems, using the least-squares algorithm, as the new solution to the long-standing discrete-time adaptive state tracking control problem to which the Lyapunov method (well-developed for the continuous-time adaptive state tracking problem) is not applicable. The new adaptive state tracking scheme is based on a recently-developed new discrete-time error model which has been used for gradient algorithm based state tracking control schemes, and uses the least-squares algorithm for parameter adaptation. The new least-squares algorithm is derived to minimize an accumulative estimation error, to ensure certain optimality for parameter estimation. The system stability and output tracking properties are studied. Technical results are presented in terms of plant-model matching, error model, adaptive law, optimality formulation, and stability and tracking analysis. The developed adaptive control scheme is applied to a discrete-time multiple mobile robot system to meet an adaptive state tracking objective. In addition, a collision avoidance mechanism is proposed to prevent collisions in the whole tracking process. Simulation results are presented, which verify the desired system state tracking properties under the developed least-squares algorithm based adaptive control scheme.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [348]
标题:  Speeding Up Path Planning via Reinforcement Learning in MCTS for  Automated Parking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17234
作者:  Xinlong Zheng,  Xiaozhou Zhang,  Donghao Xu
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we address a method that integrates reinforcement learning into the Monte Carlo tree search to boost online path planning under fully observable environments for automated parking tasks. Sampling-based planning methods under high-dimensional space can be computationally expensive and time-consuming. State evaluation methods are useful by leveraging the prior knowledge into the search steps, making the process faster in a real-time system. Given the fact that automated parking tasks are often executed under complex environments, a solid but lightweight heuristic guidance is challenging to compose in a traditional analytical way. To overcome this limitation, we propose a reinforcement learning pipeline with a Monte Carlo tree search under the path planning framework. By iteratively learning the value of a state and the best action among samples from its previous cycle's outcomes, we are able to model a value estimator and a policy generator for given states. By doing that, we build up a balancing mechanism between exploration and exploitation, speeding up the path planning process while maintaining its quality without using human expert driver data.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [349]
标题:  Active Learning of Dynamics Using Prior Domain Knowledge in the Sampling  Process
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17233
作者:  Kevin S. Miller,  Adam J. Thorpe,  Ufuk Topcu
备注:  
Abstract:We present an active learning algorithm for learning dynamics that leverages side information by explicitly incorporating prior domain knowledge into the sampling process. Our proposed algorithm guides the exploration toward regions that demonstrate high empirical discrepancy between the observed data and an imperfect prior model of the dynamics derived from side information. Through numerical experiments, we demonstrate that this strategy explores regions of high discrepancy and accelerates learning while simultaneously reducing model uncertainty. We rigorously prove that our active learning algorithm yields a consistent estimate of the underlying dynamics by providing an explicit rate of convergence for the maximum predictive variance. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on an under-actuated pendulum system and on the half-cheetah MuJoCo environment.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [350]
标题:  PROSPECT: Precision Robot Spectroscopy Exploration and Characterization  Tool
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17232
作者:  Nathaniel Hanson,  Gary Lvov,  Vedant Rautela,  Samuel Hibbard,  Ethan Holand,  Charles DiMarzio,  Taşkın Padır
备注:  
Abstract:Near Infrared (NIR) spectroscopy is widely used in industrial quality control and automation to test the purity and material quality of items. In this research, we propose a novel sensorized end effector and acquisition strategy to capture spectral signatures from objects and register them with a 3D point cloud. Our methodology first takes a 3D scan of an object generated by a time-of-flight depth camera and decomposes the object into a series of planned viewpoints covering the surface. We generate motion plans for a robot manipulator and end-effector to visit these viewpoints while maintaining a fixed distance and surface normal to ensure maximal spectral signal quality enabled by the spherical motion of the end-effector. By continuously acquiring surface reflectance values as the end-effector scans the target object, the autonomous system develops a four-dimensional model of the target object: position in an R^3 coordinate frame, and a wavelength vector denoting the associated spectral signature. We demonstrate this system in building spectral-spatial object profiles of increasingly complex geometries. As a point of comparison, we show our proposed system and spectral acquisition planning yields more consistent signal signals than naive point scanning strategies for capturing spectral information over complex surface geometries. Our work represents a significant step towards high-resolution spectral-spatial sensor fusion for automated quality assessment.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [351]
标题:  Dyna-LfLH: Learning Agile Navigation in Dynamic Environments from  Learned Hallucination
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17231
作者:  Saad Abdul Ghani,  Zizhao Wang,  Peter Stone,  Xuesu Xiao
备注:  Submitted to International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) 2024
Abstract:This paper presents a self-supervised learning method to safely learn a motion planner for ground robots to navigate environments with dense and dynamic obstacles. When facing highly-cluttered, fast-moving, hard-to-predict obstacles, classical motion planners may not be able to keep up with limited onboard computation. For learning-based planners, high-quality demonstrations are difficult to acquire for imitation learning while reinforcement learning becomes inefficient due to the high probability of collision during exploration. To safely and efficiently provide training data, the Learning from Hallucination (LfH) approaches synthesize difficult navigation environments based on past successful navigation experiences in relatively easy or completely open ones, but unfortunately cannot address dynamic obstacles. In our new Dynamic Learning from Learned Hallucination (Dyna-LfLH), we design and learn a novel latent distribution and sample dynamic obstacles from it, so the generated training data can be used to learn a motion planner to navigate in dynamic environments. Dyna-LfLH is evaluated on a ground robot in both simulated and physical environments and achieves up to 25% better success rate compared to baselines.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [352]
标题:  Corra: Correlation-Aware Column Compression
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17229
作者:  Hanwen Liu,  Mihail Stoian,  Alexander van Renen,  Andreas Kipf
备注:  
Abstract:Column encoding schemes have witnessed a spark of interest lately. This is not surprising -- as data volume increases, being able to keep one's dataset in main memory for fast processing is a coveted desideratum. However, it also seems that single-column encoding schemes have reached a plateau in terms of the compression size they can achieve. We argue that this is because they do not exploit correlations in the data. Consider for instance the column pair ($\texttt{city}$, $\texttt{zip-code}$) of the DMV dataset: a city has only a few dozen unique zip codes. Such information, if properly exploited, can significantly reduce the space consumption of the latter column. In this work, we depart from the established, well-trodden path of compressing data using only single-column encoding schemes and introduce $\textit{correlation-aware}$ encoding schemes. We demonstrate their advantages compared to single-column encoding schemes on the well-known TPC-H's $\texttt{lineitem}$, LDBC's $\texttt{message}$, DMV, and Taxi. For example, we obtain a saving rate of 58.3% for $\texttt{lineitem}$'s $\texttt{shipdate}$, while the dropoff timestamps in Taxi witness a saving rate of 30.6%.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [353]
标题:  Measuring Compliance with the California Consumer Privacy Act Over Space  and Time
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17225
作者:  Van Tran,  Aarushi Mehrotra,  Marshini Chetty,  Nick Feamster,  Jens Frankenreiter,  Lior Strahilevitz
备注:  
Abstract:The widespread sharing of consumers personal information with third parties raises significant privacy concerns. The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) mandates that online businesses offer consumers the option to opt out of the sale and sharing of personal information. Our study automatically tracks the presence of the opt-out link longitudinally across multiple states after the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) went into effect. We categorize websites based on whether they are subject to CCPA and investigate cases of potential non-compliance. We find a number of websites that implement the opt-out link early and across all examined states but also find a significant number of CCPA-subject websites that fail to offer any opt-out methods even when CCPA is in effect. Our findings can shed light on how websites are reacting to the CCPA and identify potential gaps in compliance and opt- out method designs that hinder consumers from exercising CCPA opt-out rights.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [354]
标题:  Uncertainty Quantification for Gradient-based Explanations in Neural  Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17224
作者:  Mihir Mulye,  Matias Valdenegro-Toro
备注:  24 pages, 11 figures
Abstract:Explanation methods help understand the reasons for a model's prediction. These methods are increasingly involved in model debugging, performance optimization, and gaining insights into the workings of a model. With such critical applications of these methods, it is imperative to measure the uncertainty associated with the explanations generated by these methods. In this paper, we propose a pipeline to ascertain the explanation uncertainty of neural networks by combining uncertainty estimation methods and explanation methods. We use this pipeline to produce explanation distributions for the CIFAR-10, FER+, and California Housing datasets. By computing the coefficient of variation of these distributions, we evaluate the confidence in the explanation and determine that the explanations generated using Guided Backpropagation have low uncertainty associated with them. Additionally, we compute modified pixel insertion/deletion metrics to evaluate the quality of the generated explanations.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [355]
标题:  Co-Occurring of Object Detection and Identification towards unlabeled  object discovery
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17223
作者:  Binay Kumar Singh,  Niels Da Vitoria Lobo
备注:  6 pages, 2 figures,
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a novel deep learning based approach for identifying co-occurring objects in conjunction with base objects in multilabel object categories. Nowadays, with the advancement in computer vision based techniques we need to know about co-occurring objects with respect to base object for various purposes. The pipeline of the proposed work is composed of two stages: in the first stage of the proposed model we detect all the bounding boxes present in the image and their corresponding labels, then in the second stage we perform co-occurrence matrix analysis. In co-occurrence matrix analysis, we set base classes based on the maximum occurrences of the labels and build association rules and generate frequent patterns. These frequent patterns will show base classes and their corresponding co-occurring classes. We performed our experiments on two publicly available datasets: Pascal VOC and MS-COCO. The experimental results on public benchmark dataset is reported in Sec 4. Further we extend this work by considering all frequently objects as unlabeled and what if they are occluded as well.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [356]
标题:  Making Sentence Embeddings Robust to User-Generated Content
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17220
作者:  Lydia Nishimwe,  Benoît Sagot,  Rachel Bawden
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:NLP models have been known to perform poorly on user-generated content (UGC), mainly because it presents a lot of lexical variations and deviates from the standard texts on which most of these models were trained. In this work, we focus on the robustness of LASER, a sentence embedding model, to UGC data. We evaluate this robustness by LASER's ability to represent non-standard sentences and their standard counterparts close to each other in the embedding space. Inspired by previous works extending LASER to other languages and modalities, we propose RoLASER, a robust English encoder trained using a teacher-student approach to reduce the distances between the representations of standard and UGC sentences. We show that with training only on standard and synthetic UGC-like data, RoLASER significantly improves LASER's robustness to both natural and artificial UGC data by achieving up to 2x and 11x better scores. We also perform a fine-grained analysis on artificial UGC data and find that our model greatly outperforms LASER on its most challenging UGC phenomena such as keyboard typos and social media abbreviations. Evaluation on downstream tasks shows that RoLASER performs comparably to or better than LASER on standard data, while consistently outperforming it on UGC data.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [357]
标题:  SeSaMe: A Framework to Simulate Self-Reported Ground Truth for Mental  Health Sensing Studies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17219
作者:  Akshat Choube,  Vedant Das Swain,  Varun Mishra
备注:  
Abstract:Advances in mobile and wearable technologies have enabled the potential to passively monitor a person's mental, behavioral, and affective health. These approaches typically rely on longitudinal collection of self-reported outcomes, e.g., depression, stress, and anxiety, to train machine learning (ML) models. However, the need to continuously self-report adds a significant burden on the participants, often resulting in attrition, missing labels, or insincere responses. In this work, we introduce the Scale Scores Simulation using Mental Models (SeSaMe) framework to alleviate participants' burden in digital mental health studies. By leveraging pre-trained large language models (LLMs), SeSaMe enables the simulation of participants' responses on psychological scales. In SeSaMe, researchers can prompt LLMs with information on participants' internal behavioral dispositions, enabling LLMs to construct mental models of participants to simulate their responses on psychological scales. We demonstrate an application of SeSaMe, where we use GPT-4 to simulate responses on one scale using responses from another as behavioral information. We also evaluate the alignment between human and SeSaMe-simulated responses to psychological scales. Then, we present experiments to inspect the utility of SeSaMe-simulated responses as ground truth in training ML models by replicating established depression and anxiety screening tasks from a previous study. Our results indicate SeSaMe to be a promising approach, but its alignment may vary across scales and specific prediction objectives. We also observed that model performance with simulated data was on par with using the real data for training in most evaluation scenarios. We conclude by discussing the potential implications of SeSaMe in addressing some challenges researchers face with ground-truth collection in passive sensing studies.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [358]
标题:  A Comprehensive Study of the Capabilities of Large Language Models for  Vulnerability Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17218
作者:  Benjamin Steenhoek,  Md Mahbubur Rahman,  Monoshi Kumar Roy,  Mirza Sanjida Alam,  Earl T. Barr,  Wei Le
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated great potential for code generation and other software engineering tasks. Vulnerability detection is of crucial importance to maintaining the security, integrity, and trustworthiness of software systems. Precise vulnerability detection requires reasoning about the code, making it a good case study for exploring the limits of LLMs' reasoning capabilities. Although recent work has applied LLMs to vulnerability detection using generic prompting techniques, their full capabilities for this task and the types of errors they make when explaining identified vulnerabilities remain unclear. In this paper, we surveyed eleven LLMs that are state-of-the-art in code generation and commonly used as coding assistants, and evaluated their capabilities for vulnerability detection. We systematically searched for the best-performing prompts, incorporating techniques such as in-context learning and chain-of-thought, and proposed three of our own prompting methods. Our results show that while our prompting methods improved the models' performance, LLMs generally struggled with vulnerability detection. They reported 0.5-0.63 Balanced Accuracy and failed to distinguish between buggy and fixed versions of programs in 76% of cases on average. By comprehensively analyzing and categorizing 287 instances of model reasoning, we found that 57% of LLM responses contained errors, and the models frequently predicted incorrect locations of buggy code and misidentified bug types. LLMs only correctly localized 6 out of 27 bugs in DbgBench, and these 6 bugs were predicted correctly by 70-100% of human participants. These findings suggest that despite their potential for other tasks, LLMs may fail to properly comprehend critical code structures and security-related concepts. Our data and code are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [359]
标题:  DiffusionAct: Controllable Diffusion Autoencoder for One-shot Face  Reenactment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17217
作者:  Stella Bounareli,  Christos Tzelepis,  Vasileios Argyriou,  Ioannis Patras,  Georgios Tzimiropoulos
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Video-driven neural face reenactment aims to synthesize realistic facial images that successfully preserve the identity and appearance of a source face, while transferring the target head pose and facial expressions. Existing GAN-based methods suffer from either distortions and visual artifacts or poor reconstruction quality, i.e., the background and several important appearance details, such as hair style/color, glasses and accessories, are not faithfully reconstructed. Recent advances in Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DPMs) enable the generation of high-quality realistic images. To this end, in this paper we present DiffusionAct, a novel method that leverages the photo-realistic image generation of diffusion models to perform neural face reenactment. Specifically, we propose to control the semantic space of a Diffusion Autoencoder (DiffAE), in order to edit the facial pose of the input images, defined as the head pose orientation and the facial expressions. Our method allows one-shot, self, and cross-subject reenactment, without requiring subject-specific fine-tuning. We compare against state-of-the-art GAN-, StyleGAN2-, and diffusion-based methods, showing better or on-par reenactment performance.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [360]
标题:  Ontology Completion with Natural Language Inference and Concept  Embeddings: An Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17216
作者:  Na Li,  Thomas Bailleux,  Zied Bouraoui,  Steven Schockaert
备注:  
Abstract:We consider the problem of finding plausible knowledge that is missing from a given ontology, as a generalisation of the well-studied taxonomy expansion task. One line of work treats this task as a Natural Language Inference (NLI) problem, thus relying on the knowledge captured by language models to identify the missing knowledge. Another line of work uses concept embeddings to identify what different concepts have in common, taking inspiration from cognitive models for category based induction. These two approaches are intuitively complementary, but their effectiveness has not yet been compared. In this paper, we introduce a benchmark for evaluating ontology completion methods and thoroughly analyse the strengths and weaknesses of both approaches. We find that both approaches are indeed complementary, with hybrid strategies achieving the best overall results. We also find that the task is highly challenging for Large Language Models, even after fine-tuning.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [361]
标题:  An Undergraduate Consortium for Addressing the Leaky Pipeline to  Computing Research
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17215
作者:  James Boerkoel,  Mehmet Ergezer
备注:  Presented at SIGCSE TS 2023
Abstract:Despite an increasing number of successful interventions designed to broaden participation in computing research, there is still significant attrition among historically marginalized groups in the computing research pipeline. This experience report describes a first-of-its-kind Undergraduate Consortium (UC) that addresses this challenge by empowering students with a culmination of their undergraduate research in a conference setting. The UC, conducted at the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), aims to broaden participation in the AI research community by recruiting students, particularly those from historically marginalized groups, supporting them with mentorship, advising, and networking as an accelerator toward graduate school, AI research, and their scientific identity. This paper presents our program design, inspired by a rich set of evidence-based practices, and a preliminary evaluation of the first years that points to the UC achieving many of its desired outcomes. We conclude by discussing insights to improve our program and expand to other computing communities.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [362]
标题:  Exploring the Impact of the Output Format on the Evaluation of Large  Language Models for Code Translation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17214
作者:  Marcos Macedo,  Yuan Tian,  Filipe R. Cogo,  Bram Adams
备注:  Accepted into 2024 IEEE/ACM First International Conference on AI Foundation Models and Software Engineering (Forge)
Abstract:Code translation between programming languages is a long-existing and critical task in software engineering, facilitating the modernization of legacy systems, ensuring cross-platform compatibility, and enhancing software performance. With the recent advances in large language models (LLMs) and their applications to code translation, there is an increasing need for comprehensive evaluation of these models. In this study, we empirically analyze the generated outputs of eleven popular instruct-tuned LLMs with parameters ranging from 1B up to 46.7B on 3,820 translation pairs across five languages, including C, C++, Go, Java, and Python. Our analysis found that between 26.4% and 73.7% of code translations produced by our evaluated LLMs necessitate post-processing, as these translations often include a mix of code, quotes, and text rather than being purely source code. Overlooking the output format of these models can inadvertently lead to underestimation of their actual performance. This is particularly evident when evaluating them with execution-based metrics such as Computational Accuracy (CA). Our results demonstrate that a strategic combination of prompt engineering and regular expression can effectively extract the source code from the model generation output. In particular, our method can help eleven selected models achieve an average Code Extraction Success Rate (CSR) of 92.73%. Our findings shed light on and motivate future research to conduct more reliable benchmarks of LLMs for code translation.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [363]
标题:  AnimateMe: 4D Facial Expressions via Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17213
作者:  Dimitrios Gerogiannis,  Foivos Paraperas Papantoniou,  Rolandos Alexandros Potamias,  Alexandros Lattas,  Stylianos Moschoglou,  Stylianos Ploumpis,  Stefanos Zafeiriou
备注:  
Abstract:The field of photorealistic 3D avatar reconstruction and generation has garnered significant attention in recent years; however, animating such avatars remains challenging. Recent advances in diffusion models have notably enhanced the capabilities of generative models in 2D animation. In this work, we directly utilize these models within the 3D domain to achieve controllable and high-fidelity 4D facial animation. By integrating the strengths of diffusion processes and geometric deep learning, we employ Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) as denoising diffusion models in a novel approach, formulating the diffusion process directly on the mesh space and enabling the generation of 3D facial expressions. This facilitates the generation of facial deformations through a mesh-diffusion-based model. Additionally, to ensure temporal coherence in our animations, we propose a consistent noise sampling method. Under a series of both quantitative and qualitative experiments, we showcase that the proposed method outperforms prior work in 4D expression synthesis by generating high-fidelity extreme expressions. Furthermore, we applied our method to textured 4D facial expression generation, implementing a straightforward extension that involves training on a large-scale textured 4D facial expression database.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [364]
标题:  Sanity Checks for Explanation Uncertainty
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17212
作者:  Matias Valdenegro-Toro,  Mihir Mulye
备注:  15 pages, 7 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:Explanations for machine learning models can be hard to interpret or be wrong. Combining an explanation method with an uncertainty estimation method produces explanation uncertainty. Evaluating explanation uncertainty is difficult. In this paper we propose sanity checks for uncertainty explanation methods, where a weight and data randomization tests are defined for explanations with uncertainty, allowing for quick tests to combinations of uncertainty and explanation methods. We experimentally show the validity and effectiveness of these tests on the CIFAR10 and California Housing datasets, noting that Ensembles seem to consistently pass both tests with Guided Backpropagation, Integrated Gradients, and LIME explanations.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [365]
标题:  CADGL: Context-Aware Deep Graph Learning for Predicting Drug-Drug  Interactions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17210
作者:  Azmine Toushik Wasi,  Taki Hasan Rafi,  Raima Islam,  Serbetar Karlo,  Dong-Kyu Chae
备注:  8 Pages, 4 Figures; In review in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
Abstract:Examining Drug-Drug Interactions (DDIs) is a pivotal element in the process of drug development. DDIs occur when one drug's properties are affected by the inclusion of other drugs. Detecting favorable DDIs has the potential to pave the way for creating and advancing innovative medications applicable in practical settings. However, existing DDI prediction models continue to face challenges related to generalization in extreme cases, robust feature extraction, and real-life application possibilities. We aim to address these challenges by leveraging the effectiveness of context-aware deep graph learning by introducing a novel framework named CADGL. Based on a customized variational graph autoencoder (VGAE), we capture critical structural and physio-chemical information using two context preprocessors for feature extraction from two different perspectives: local neighborhood and molecular context, in a heterogeneous graphical structure. Our customized VGAE consists of a graph encoder, a latent information encoder, and an MLP decoder. CADGL surpasses other state-of-the-art DDI prediction models, excelling in predicting clinically valuable novel DDIs, supported by rigorous case studies.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN)

**编号**: [366]
标题:  Generation of Asset Administration Shell with Large Language Model  Agents: Interoperability in Digital Twins with Semantic Node
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17209
作者:  Yuchen Xia,  Zhewen Xiao,  Nasser Jazdi,  Michael Weyrich
备注:  Pre-print, submitted to IEEE ACCESS, under peer-review
Abstract:This research introduces a novel approach for assisting the creation of Asset Administration Shell (AAS) instances for digital twin modeling within the context of Industry 4.0, aiming to enhance interoperability in smart manufacturing and reduce manual effort. We construct a "semantic node" data structure to capture the semantic essence of textual data. Then, a system powered by large language models is designed and implemented to process "semantic node" and generate AAS instance models from textual technical data. Our evaluation demonstrates a 62-79% effective generation rate, indicating a substantial proportion of manual creation effort can be converted into easier validation effort, thereby reducing the time and cost in creating AAS instance models. In our evaluation, a comparative analysis of different LLMs and an in-depth ablation study of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) mechanisms provide insights into the effectiveness of LLM systems for interpreting technical concepts. Our findings emphasize LLMs' capability in automating AAS instance creation, enhancing semantic interoperability, and contributing to the broader field of semantic interoperability for digital twins in industrial applications. The prototype implementation and evaluation results are released on our GitHub Repository with the link: this https URL
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [367]
标题:  Extracting Social Support and Social Isolation Information from Clinical  Psychiatry Notes: Comparing a Rule-based NLP System and a Large Language  Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17199
作者:  Braja Gopal Patra,  Lauren A. Lepow,  Praneet Kasi Reddy Jagadeesh Kumar,  Veer Vekaria,  Mohit Manoj Sharma,  Prakash Adekkanattu,  Brian Fennessy,  Gavin Hynes,  Isotta Landi,  Jorge A. Sanchez-Ruiz,  Euijung Ryu,  Joanna M. Biernacka,  Girish N. Nadkarni,  Ardesheer Talati,  Myrna Weissman,  Mark Olfson,  J. John Mann,  Alexander W. Charney,  Jyotishman Pathak
备注:  2 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:Background: Social support (SS) and social isolation (SI) are social determinants of health (SDOH) associated with psychiatric outcomes. In electronic health records (EHRs), individual-level SS/SI is typically documented as narrative clinical notes rather than structured coded data. Natural language processing (NLP) algorithms can automate the otherwise labor-intensive process of data extraction. Data and Methods: Psychiatric encounter notes from Mount Sinai Health System (MSHS, n=300) and Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM, n=225) were annotated and established a gold standard corpus. A rule-based system (RBS) involving lexicons and a large language model (LLM) using FLAN-T5-XL were developed to identify mentions of SS and SI and their subcategories (e.g., social network, instrumental support, and loneliness). Results: For extracting SS/SI, the RBS obtained higher macro-averaged f-scores than the LLM at both MSHS (0.89 vs. 0.65) and WCM (0.85 vs. 0.82). For extracting subcategories, the RBS also outperformed the LLM at both MSHS (0.90 vs. 0.62) and WCM (0.82 vs. 0.81). Discussion and Conclusion: Unexpectedly, the RBS outperformed the LLMs across all metrics. Intensive review demonstrates that this finding is due to the divergent approach taken by the RBS and LLM. The RBS were designed and refined to follow the same specific rules as the gold standard annotations. Conversely, the LLM were more inclusive with categorization and conformed to common English-language understanding. Both approaches offer advantages and are made available open-source for future testing.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [368]
标题:  GPT-4 Understands Discourse at Least as Well as Humans Do
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17196
作者:  Thomas Shultz,  Jamie Wise,  Ardavan Salehi Nobandegani
备注:  7 pages, 1 figure, 3 tables
Abstract:We test whether a leading AI system GPT-4 understands discourse as well as humans do, using a standardized test of discourse comprehension. Participants are presented with brief stories and then answer eight yes/no questions probing their comprehension of the story. The questions are formatted to assess the separate impacts of directness (stated vs. implied) and salience (main idea vs. details). GPT-4 performs slightly, but not statistically significantly, better than humans given the very high level of human performance. Both GPT-4 and humans exhibit a strong ability to make inferences about information that is not explicitly stated in a story, a critical test of understanding.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [369]
标题:  Strategies to Improve Real-World Applicability of Laparoscopic Anatomy  Segmentation Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17192
作者:  Fiona R. Kolbinger,  Jiangpeng He,  Jinge Ma,  Fengqing Zhu
备注:  13 pages, 5 figures, 4 tables
Abstract:Accurate identification and localization of anatomical structures of varying size and appearance in laparoscopic imaging are necessary to leverage the potential of computer vision techniques for surgical decision support. Segmentation performance of such models is traditionally reported using metrics of overlap such as IoU. However, imbalanced and unrealistic representation of classes in the training data and suboptimal selection of reported metrics have the potential to skew nominal segmentation performance and thereby ultimately limit clinical translation. In this work, we systematically analyze the impact of class characteristics (i.e., organ size differences), training and test data composition (i.e., representation of positive and negative examples), and modeling parameters (i.e., foreground-to-background class weight) on eight segmentation metrics: accuracy, precision, recall, IoU, F1 score, specificity, Hausdorff Distance, and Average Symmetric Surface Distance. Based on our findings, we propose two simple yet effective strategies to improve real-world applicability of image segmentation models in laparoscopic surgical data: (1) inclusion of negative examples in the training process and (2) adaptation of foreground-background weights in segmentation models to maximize model performance with respect to specific metrics of interest, depending on the clinical use case.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [370]
标题:  High-dimensional continuification control of large-scale multi-agent  systems under limited sensing and perturbations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17191
作者:  Gian Carlo Maffettone,  Mario di Bernardo,  Maurizio Porfiri
备注:  arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2310.01573
Abstract:This paper investigates the robustness of a novel high-dimensional continuification control method for complex multi-agent systems. We begin by formulating a partial differential equation describing the spatio-temporal density dynamics of swarming agents. A stable control action for the density is then derived and validated under nominal conditions. Subsequently, we discretize this macroscopic strategy into actionable velocity inputs for the system's agents. Our analysis demonstrates the robustness of the approach beyond idealized assumptions of unlimited sensing and absence of perturbations.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [371]
标题:  LOTUS: Evasive and Resilient Backdoor Attacks through Sub-Partitioning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17188
作者:  Siyuan Cheng,  Guanhong Tao,  Yingqi Liu,  Guangyu Shen,  Shengwei An,  Shiwei Feng,  Xiangzhe Xu,  Kaiyuan Zhang,  Shiqing Ma,  Xiangyu Zhang
备注:  IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR 2024)
Abstract:Backdoor attack poses a significant security threat to Deep Learning applications. Existing attacks are often not evasive to established backdoor detection techniques. This susceptibility primarily stems from the fact that these attacks typically leverage a universal trigger pattern or transformation function, such that the trigger can cause misclassification for any input. In response to this, recent papers have introduced attacks using sample-specific invisible triggers crafted through special transformation functions. While these approaches manage to evade detection to some extent, they reveal vulnerability to existing backdoor mitigation techniques. To address and enhance both evasiveness and resilience, we introduce a novel backdoor attack LOTUS. Specifically, it leverages a secret function to separate samples in the victim class into a set of partitions and applies unique triggers to different partitions. Furthermore, LOTUS incorporates an effective trigger focusing mechanism, ensuring only the trigger corresponding to the partition can induce the backdoor behavior. Extensive experimental results show that LOTUS can achieve high attack success rate across 4 datasets and 7 model structures, and effectively evading 13 backdoor detection and mitigation techniques. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [372]
标题:  Histogram Layers for Neural Engineered Features
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17176
作者:  Joshua Peeples,  Salim Al Kharsa,  Luke Saleh,  Alina Zare
备注:  11 pages, 7 figures, submitted for review
Abstract:In the computer vision literature, many effective histogram-based features have been developed. These engineered features include local binary patterns and edge histogram descriptors among others and they have been shown to be informative features for a variety of computer vision tasks. In this paper, we explore whether these features can be learned through histogram layers embedded in a neural network and, therefore, be leveraged within deep learning frameworks. By using histogram features, local statistics of the feature maps from the convolution neural networks can be used to better represent the data. We present neural versions of local binary pattern and edge histogram descriptors that jointly improve the feature representation and perform image classification. Experiments are presented on benchmark and real-world datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [373]
标题:  Engagement Measurement Based on Facial Landmarks and Spatial-Temporal  Graph Convolutional Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17175
作者:  Ali Abedi,  Shehroz S. Khan
备注:  
Abstract:Engagement in virtual learning is crucial for a variety of factors including learner satisfaction, performance, and compliance with learning programs, but measuring it is a challenging task. There is therefore considerable interest in utilizing artificial intelligence and affective computing to measure engagement in natural settings as well as on a large scale. This paper introduces a novel, privacy-preserving method for engagement measurement from videos. It uses facial landmarks, which carry no personally identifiable information, extracted from videos via the MediaPipe deep learning solution. The extracted facial landmarks are fed to a Spatial-Temporal Graph Convolutional Network (ST-GCN) to output the engagement level of the learner in the video. To integrate the ordinal nature of the engagement variable into the training process, ST-GCNs undergo training in a novel ordinal learning framework based on transfer learning. Experimental results on two video student engagement measurement datasets show the superiority of the proposed method compared to previous methods with improved state-of-the-art on the EngageNet dataset with a %3.1 improvement in four-class engagement level classification accuracy and on the Online Student Engagement dataset with a %1.5 improvement in binary engagement classification accuracy. The relatively lightweight ST-GCN and its integration with the real-time MediaPipe deep learning solution make the proposed approach capable of being deployed on virtual learning platforms and measuring engagement in real time.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [374]
标题:  Belief Samples Are All You Need For Social Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17174
作者:  Mahyar JafariNodeh,  Amir Ajorlou,  Ali Jadbabaie
备注:  6 pages
Abstract:In this paper, we consider the problem of social learning, where a group of agents embedded in a social network are interested in learning an underlying state of the world. Agents have incomplete, noisy, and heterogeneous sources of information, providing them with recurring private observations of the underlying state of the world. Agents can share their learning experience with their peers by taking actions observable to them, with values from a finite feasible set of states. Actions can be interpreted as samples from the beliefs which agents may form and update on what the true state of the world is. Sharing samples, in place of full beliefs, is motivated by the limited communication, cognitive, and information-processing resources available to agents especially in large populations. Previous work (Salhab et al.) poses the question as to whether learning with probability one is still achievable if agents are only allowed to communicate samples from their beliefs. We provide a definite positive answer to this question, assuming a strongly connected network and a ``collective distinguishability'' assumption, which are both required for learning even in full-belief-sharing settings. In our proposed belief update mechanism, each agent's belief is a normalized weighted geometric interpolation between a fully Bayesian private belief -- aggregating information from the private source -- and an ensemble of empirical distributions of the samples shared by her neighbors over time. By carefully constructing asymptotic almost-sure lower/upper bounds on the frequency of shared samples matching the true state/or not, we rigorously prove the convergence of all the beliefs to the true state, with probability one.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Systems and Control (eess.SY); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [375]
标题:  Task2Box: Box Embeddings for Modeling Asymmetric Task Relationships
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17173
作者:  Rangel Daroya,  Aaron Sun,  Subhransu Maji
备注:  
Abstract:Modeling and visualizing relationships between tasks or datasets is an important step towards solving various meta-tasks such as dataset discovery, multi-tasking, and transfer learning. However, many relationships, such as containment and transferability, are naturally asymmetric and current approaches for representation and visualization (e.g., t-SNE do not readily support this. We propose Task2Box, an approach to represent tasks using box embeddings -- axis-aligned hyperrectangles in low dimensional spaces -- that can capture asymmetric relationships between them through volumetric overlaps. We show that Task2Box accurately predicts unseen hierarchical relationships between nodes in ImageNet and iNaturalist datasets, as well as transferability between tasks in the Taskonomy benchmark. We also show that box embeddings estimated from task representations (e.g., CLIP, Task2Vec, or attribute based) can be used to predict relationships between unseen tasks more accurately than classifiers trained on the same representations, as well as handcrafted asymmetric distances (e.g., KL divergence). This suggests that low-dimensional box embeddings can effectively capture these task relationships and have the added advantage of being interpretable. We use the approach to visualize relationships among publicly available image classification datasets on popular dataset hosting platform called Hugging Face.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [376]
标题:  NUMTEMP: A real-world benchmark to verify claims with statistical and  temporal expressions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17169
作者:  Venktesh V,  Abhijit Anand,  Avishek Anand,  Vinay Setty
备注:  17 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:Automated fact checking has gained immense interest to tackle the growing misinformation in the digital era. Existing systems primarily focus on synthetic claims on Wikipedia, and noteworthy progress has also been made on real-world claims. In this work, we release Numtemp, a diverse, multi-domain dataset focused exclusively on numerical claims, encompassing temporal, statistical and diverse aspects with fine-grained metadata and an evidence collection without leakage. This addresses the challenge of verifying real-world numerical claims, which are complex and often lack precise information, not addressed by existing works that mainly focus on synthetic claims. We evaluate and quantify the limitations of existing solutions for the task of verifying numerical claims. We also evaluate claim decomposition based methods, numerical understanding based models and our best baselines achieves a macro-F1 of 58.32. This demonstrates that Numtemp serves as a challenging evaluation set for numerical claim verification.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [377]
标题:  Building an Open-Source Community to Enhance Autonomic Nervous System  Signal Analysis: DBDP-Autonomic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17165
作者:  Jessilyn Dunn,  Varun Mishra,  Md Mobashir Hasan Shandhi,  Hayoung Jeong,  Natasha Yamane,  Yuna Wantanabe,  Matthew S. Goodwin
备注:  
Abstract:Smartphones and wearable sensors offer an unprecedented ability to collect peripheral psychophysiological signals across diverse timescales, settings, populations, and modalities. However, open-source software development has yet to keep pace with rapid advancements in hardware technology and availability, creating an analytical barrier that limits the scientific usefulness of acquired data. We propose a community-driven, open-source peripheral psychophysiological signal pre-processing and analysis software framework that could advance biobehavioral health by enabling more robust, transparent, and reproducible inferences involving autonomic nervous system data.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [378]
标题:  Multi-Objective Quality-Diversity for Crystal Structure Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17164
作者:  Hannah Janmohamed,  Marta Wolinska,  Shikha Surana,  Thomas Pierrot,  Aron Walsh,  Antoine Cully
备注:  Accepted GECCO 2024
Abstract:Crystal structures are indispensable across various domains, from batteries to solar cells, and extensive research has been dedicated to predicting their properties based on their atomic configurations. However, prevailing Crystal Structure Prediction methods focus on identifying the most stable solutions that lie at the global minimum of the energy function. This approach overlooks other potentially interesting materials that lie in neighbouring local minima and have different material properties such as conductivity or resistance to deformation. By contrast, Quality-Diversity algorithms provide a promising avenue for Crystal Structure Prediction as they aim to find a collection of high-performing solutions that have diverse characteristics. However, it may also be valuable to optimise for the stability of crystal structures alongside other objectives such as magnetism or thermoelectric efficiency. Therefore, in this work, we harness the power of Multi-Objective Quality-Diversity algorithms in order to find crystal structures which have diverse features and achieve different trade-offs of objectives. We analyse our approach on 5 crystal systems and demonstrate that it is not only able to re-discover known real-life structures, but also find promising new ones. Moreover, we propose a method for illuminating the objective space to gain an understanding of what trade-offs can be achieved.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [379]
标题:  Multi-Contact Inertial Estimation and Localization in Legged Robots
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17161
作者:  Sergi Martinez,  Robert Griffin,  Carlos Mastalli
备注:  
Abstract:Optimal estimation is a promising tool for multi-contact inertial estimation and localization. To harness its advantages in robotics, it is crucial to solve these large and challenging optimization problems efficiently. To tackle this, we (i) develop a multiple-shooting solver that exploits both temporal and parametric structures through a parametrized Riccati recursion. Additionally, we (ii) propose an inertial local manifold that ensures its full physical consistency. It also enhances convergence compared to the singularity-free log-Cholesky approach. To handle its singularities, we (iii) introduce a nullspace approach in our optimal estimation solver. We (iv) finally develop the analytical derivatives of contact dynamics for both inertial parametrizations. Our framework can successfully solve estimation problems for complex maneuvers such as brachiation in humanoids. We demonstrate its numerical capabilities across various robotics tasks and its benefits in experimental trials with the Go1 robot.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [380]
标题:  CYGENT: A cybersecurity conversational agent with log summarization  powered by GPT-3
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17160
作者:  Prasasthy Balasubramanian,  Justin Seby,  Panos Kostakos
备注:  7 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:In response to the escalating cyber-attacks in the modern IT and IoT landscape, we developed CYGENT, a conversational agent framework powered by GPT-3.5 turbo model, designed to aid system administrators in ensuring optimal performance and uninterrupted resource availability. This study focuses on fine-tuning GPT-3 models for cybersecurity tasks, including conversational AI and generative AI tailored specifically for cybersecurity operations. CYGENT assists users by providing cybersecurity information, analyzing and summarizing uploaded log files, detecting specific events, and delivering essential instructions. The conversational agent was developed based on the GPT-3.5 turbo model. We fine-tuned and validated summarizer models (GPT3) using manually generated data points. Using this approach, we achieved a BERTscore of over 97%, indicating GPT-3's enhanced capability in summarizing log files into human-readable formats and providing necessary information to users. Furthermore, we conducted a comparative analysis of GPT-3 models with other Large Language Models (LLMs), including CodeT5-small, CodeT5-base, and CodeT5-base-multi-sum, with the objective of analyzing log analysis techniques. Our analysis consistently demonstrated that Davinci (GPT-3) model outperformed all other LLMs, showcasing higher performance. These findings are crucial for improving human comprehension of logs, particularly in light of the increasing numbers of IoT devices. Additionally, our research suggests that the CodeT5-base-multi-sum model exhibits comparable performance to Davinci to some extent in summarizing logs, indicating its potential as an offline model for this task.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [381]
标题:  Less Is More - On the Importance of Sparsification for Transformers and  Graph Neural Networks for TSP
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17159
作者:  Attila Lischka,  Jiaming Wu,  Rafael Basso,  Morteza Haghir Chehreghani,  Balázs Kulcsár
备注:  14 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Most of the recent studies tackling routing problems like the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) with machine learning use a transformer or Graph Neural Network (GNN) based encoder architecture. However, many of them apply these encoders naively by allowing them to aggregate information over the whole TSP instances. We, on the other hand, propose a data preprocessing method that allows the encoders to focus on the most relevant parts of the TSP instances only. In particular, we propose graph sparsification for TSP graph representations passed to GNNs and attention masking for TSP instances passed to transformers where the masks correspond to the adjacency matrices of the sparse TSP graph representations. Furthermore, we propose ensembles of different sparsification levels allowing models to focus on the most promising parts while also allowing information flow between all nodes of a TSP instance. In the experimental studies, we show that for GNNs appropriate sparsification and ensembles of different sparsification levels lead to substantial performance increases of the overall architecture. We also design a new, state-of-the-art transformer encoder with ensembles of attention masking. These transformers increase model performance from a gap of $0.16\%$ to $0.10\%$ for TSP instances of size 100 and from $0.02\%$ to $0.00\%$ for TSP instances of size 50.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [382]
标题:  Reflecting the Male Gaze: Quantifying Female Objectification in 19th and  20th Century Novels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17158
作者:  Kexin Luo,  Yue Mao,  Bei Zhang,  Sophie Hao
备注:  To appear in LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Inspired by the concept of the male gaze (Mulvey, 1975) in literature and media studies, this paper proposes a framework for analyzing gender bias in terms of female objectification: the extent to which a text portrays female individuals as objects of visual pleasure. Our framework measures female objectification along two axes. First, we compute an agency bias score that indicates whether male entities are more likely to appear in the text as grammatical agents than female entities. Next, by analyzing the word embedding space induced by a text (Caliskan et al., 2017), we compute an appearance bias score that indicates whether female entities are more closely associated with appearance-related words than male entities. Applying our framework to 19th and 20th century novels reveals evidence of female objectification in literature: we find that novels written from a male perspective systematically objectify female characters, while novels written from a female perspective do not exhibit statistically significant objectification of any gender.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [383]
标题:  Task-Agnostic Detector for Insertion-Based Backdoor Attacks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17155
作者:  Weimin Lyu,  Xiao Lin,  Songzhu Zheng,  Lu Pang,  Haibin Ling,  Susmit Jha,  Chao Chen
备注:  Findings of NAACL 2024
Abstract:Textual backdoor attacks pose significant security threats. Current detection approaches, typically relying on intermediate feature representation or reconstructing potential triggers, are task-specific and less effective beyond sentence classification, struggling with tasks like question answering and named entity recognition. We introduce TABDet (Task-Agnostic Backdoor Detector), a pioneering task-agnostic method for backdoor detection. TABDet leverages final layer logits combined with an efficient pooling technique, enabling unified logit representation across three prominent NLP tasks. TABDet can jointly learn from diverse task-specific models, demonstrating superior detection efficacy over traditional task-specific methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [384]
标题:  On the Impact of Black-box Deployment Strategies for Edge AI on Latency  and Model Performance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17154
作者:  Jaskirat Singh,  Bram Adams,  Ahmed E. Hassan
备注:  
Abstract:Deciding what combination of operators to use across the Edge AI tiers to achieve specific latency and model performance requirements is an open question for MLOps engineers. This study aims to empirically assess the accuracy vs inference time trade-off of different black-box Edge AI deployment strategies, i.e., combinations of deployment operators and deployment tiers. In this paper, we conduct inference experiments involving 3 deployment operators (i.e., Partitioning, Quantization, Early Exit), 3 deployment tiers (i.e., Mobile, Edge, Cloud) and their combinations on four widely used Computer-Vision models to investigate the optimal strategies from the point of view of MLOps developers. Our findings suggest that Edge deployment using the hybrid Quantization + Early Exit operator could be preferred over non-hybrid operators (Quantization/Early Exit on Edge, Partition on Mobile-Edge) when faster latency is a concern at medium accuracy loss. However, when minimizing accuracy loss is a concern, MLOps engineers should prefer using only a Quantization operator on edge at a latency reduction or increase, respectively over the Early Exit/Partition (on edge/mobile-edge) and Quantized Early Exit (on edge) operators. In scenarios constrained by Mobile CPU/RAM resources, a preference for Partitioning across mobile and edge tiers is observed over mobile deployment. For models with smaller input data samples (such as FCN), a network-constrained cloud deployment can also be a better alternative than Mobile/Edge deployment and Partitioning strategies. For models with large input data samples (ResNet, ResNext, DUC), an edge tier having higher network/computational capabilities than Cloud/Mobile can be a more viable option than Partitioning and Mobile/Cloud deployment strategies.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [385]
标题:  Hearing the shape of an arena with spectral swarm robotics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17147
作者:  Leo Cazenille,  Nicolas Lobato-Dauzier,  Alessia Loi,  Mika Ito,  Olivier Marchal,  Nathanael Aubert-Kato,  Nicolas Bredeche,  Anthony J. Genot
备注:  
Abstract:Swarm robotics promises adaptability to unknown situations and robustness against failures. However, it still struggles with global tasks that require understanding the broader context in which the robots operate, such as identifying the shape of the arena in which the robots are embedded. Biological swarms, such as shoals of fish, flocks of birds, and colonies of insects, routinely solve global geometrical problems through the diffusion of local cues. This paradigm can be explicitly described by mathematical models that could be directly computed and exploited by a robotic swarm. Diffusion over a domain is mathematically encapsulated by the Laplacian, a linear operator that measures the local curvature of a function. Crucially the geometry of a domain can generally be reconstructed from the eigenspectrum of its Laplacian. Here we introduce spectral swarm robotics where robots diffuse information to their neighbors to emulate the Laplacian operator - enabling them to "hear" the spectrum of their arena. We reveal a universal scaling that links the optimal number of robots (a global parameter) with their optimal radius of interaction (a local parameter). We validate experimentally spectral swarm robotics under challenging conditions with the one-shot classification of arena shapes using a sparse swarm of Kilobots. Spectral methods can assist with challenging tasks where robots need to build an emergent consensus on their environment, such as adaptation to unknown terrains, division of labor, or quorum sensing. Spectral methods may extend beyond robotics to analyze and coordinate swarms of agents of various natures, such as traffic or crowds, and to better understand the long-range dynamics of natural systems emerging from short-range interactions.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [386]
标题:  Outcome-Constrained Large Language Models for Countering Hate Speech
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17146
作者:  Lingzi Hong,  Pengcheng Luo,  Eduardo Blanco,  Xiaoying Song
备注:  
Abstract:Counterspeech that challenges or responds to hate speech has been seen as an alternative to mitigate the negative impact of hate speech and foster productive online communications. Research endeavors have been directed to using language models for the automatic generation of counterspeech to assist efforts in combating online hate. Existing research focuses on the generation of counterspeech with certain linguistic attributes, such as being polite, informative, and intent-driven. However, it remains unclear what impact the counterspeech might have in an online environment. We first explore methods that utilize large language models (LLM) to generate counterspeech constrained by potential conversation outcomes. We build two conversation outcome classifiers that predict the incivility level and the hater reentry behavior following replies to hate with Reddit data, then propose four methods to incorporate the desired outcomes, i.e., low conversation incivility and non-hateful hater reentry, into the text generation process, including Prompt with Instructions, Prompt and Select, LLM finetune, and LLM transformer reinforcement learning (TRL). Evaluation results show effective strategies to generate outcome-constrained counterspeech and the linguistic characteristics of texts generated by different methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [387]
标题:  Guided Distant Supervision for Multilingual Relation Extraction Data:  Adapting to a New Language
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17143
作者:  Alistair Plum,  Tharindu Ranasinghe,  Christoph Purschke
备注:  Accepted to LREC-COLING 2024 (The 2024 Joint International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation)
Abstract:Relation extraction is essential for extracting and understanding biographical information in the context of digital humanities and related subjects. There is a growing interest in the community to build datasets capable of training machine learning models to extract relationships. However, annotating such datasets can be expensive and time-consuming, in addition to being limited to English. This paper applies guided distant supervision to create a large biographical relationship extraction dataset for German. Our dataset, composed of more than 80,000 instances for nine relationship types, is the largest biographical German relationship extraction dataset. We also create a manually annotated dataset with 2000 instances to evaluate the models and release it together with the dataset compiled using guided distant supervision. We train several state-of-the-art machine learning models on the automatically created dataset and release them as well. Furthermore, we experiment with multilingual and cross-lingual experiments that could benefit many low-resource languages.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [388]
标题:  MetaAligner: Conditional Weak-to-Strong Correction for Generalizable  Multi-Objective Alignment of Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17141
作者:  Kailai Yang,  Zhiwei Liu,  Qianqian Xie,  Tianlin Zhang,  Nirui Song,  Jimin Huang,  Ziyan Kuang,  Sophia Ananiadou
备注:  Work in progress, more general experimental results to come
Abstract:Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) aim to tackle heterogeneous human expectations and values via multi-objective preference alignment. However, existing methods are parameter-adherent to the policy model, leading to two key limitations: (1) the high-cost repetition of their alignment algorithms for each new target model; (2) they cannot expand to unseen objectives due to their static alignment objectives. In this work, we propose Meta-Objective Aligner (MetaAligner), a model that performs conditional weak-to-strong correction for weak responses to approach strong responses. MetaAligner is the first policy-agnostic and generalizable method for multi-objective preference alignment, which enables plug-and-play alignment by decoupling parameter updates from the policy models and facilitates zero-shot preference alignment for unseen objectives via in-context learning. Experimental results show that MetaAligner achieves significant and balanced improvements in multi-objective alignments on 11 policy models with up to 63x more parameters, and outperforms previous alignment methods with down to 22.27x less computational resources. The model also accurately aligns with unseen objectives, marking the first step towards generalizable multi-objective preference alignment.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [389]
标题:  An Equilibrium Analysis of the Arad-Rubinstein Game
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17139
作者:  Christian Ewerhart,  Stanisław Kaźmierowski
备注:  
Abstract:Colonel Blotto games with discrete strategy spaces effectively illus- trate the intricate nature of multidimensional strategic reasoning. This paper studies the equilibrium set of such games where, in line with prior experimental work, the tie-breaking rule is allowed to be flexible. We begin by pointing out that equilibrium constructions known from the literature extend to our class of games. However, we also note that, irrespective of the tie-breaking rule, the equilibrium set is excessively large. Specifically, any pure strategy that allocates at most twice the fair share to each battlefield is used with positive probability in some equilibrium. Furthermore, refinements based on the elimination of weakly dominated strategies prove ineffective. To derive specific predictions amid this multiplicity, we compute strategies resulting from long-run adaptive learning.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [390]
标题:  Adaptive Step Duration for Precise Foot Placement: Achieving Robust  Bipedal Locomotion on Terrains with Restricted Footholds
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17136
作者:  Zhaoyang Xiang,  Victor Paredes,  Ayonga Hereid
备注:  8 pages, 8 figures, submitted to CDC 2024, for associated simulation video, see this https URL
Abstract:This paper introduces a novel multi-step preview foot placement planning algorithm designed to enhance the robustness of bipedal robotic walking across challenging terrains with restricted footholds. Traditional one-step preview planning struggles to maintain stability when stepping areas are severely limited, such as with random stepping stones. In this work, we developed a discrete-time Model Predictive Control (MPC) based on the step-to-step discrete evolution of the Divergent Component of Motion (DCM) of bipedal locomotion. This approach adaptively changes the step duration for optimal foot placement under constraints, thereby ensuring the robot's operational viability over multiple future steps and significantly improving its ability to navigate through environments with tight constraints on possible footholds. The effectiveness of this planning algorithm is demonstrated through simulations that include a variety of complex stepping-stone configurations and external perturbations. These tests underscore the algorithm's improved performance for navigating foothold-restricted environments, even with the presence of external disturbances.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [391]
标题:  Exploring the Generalization of Cancer Clinical Trial Eligibility  Classifiers Across Diseases
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17135
作者:  Yumeng Yang,  Ashley Gilliam,  Ethan B Ludmir,  Kirk Roberts
备注:  
Abstract:Clinical trials are pivotal in medical research, and NLP can enhance their success, with application in recruitment. This study aims to evaluate the generalizability of eligibility classification across a broad spectrum of clinical trials. Starting with phase 3 cancer trials, annotated with seven eligibility exclusions, then to determine how well models can generalize to non-cancer and non-phase 3 trials. To assess this, we have compiled eligibility criteria data for five types of trials: (1) additional phase 3 cancer trials, (2) phase 1 and 2 cancer trials, (3) heart disease trials, (4) type 2 diabetes trials, and (5) observational trials for any disease, comprising 2,490 annotated eligibility criteria across seven exclusion types. Our results show that models trained on the extensive cancer dataset can effectively handle criteria commonly found in non-cancer trials, such as autoimmune diseases. However, they struggle with criteria disproportionately prevalent in cancer trials, like prior malignancy. We also experiment with few-shot learning, demonstrating that a limited number of disease-specific examples can partially overcome this performance gap. We are releasing this new dataset of annotated eligibility statements to promote the development of cross-disease generalization in clinical trial classification.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)

**编号**: [392]
标题:  RepairAgent: An Autonomous, LLM-Based Agent for Program Repair
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17134
作者:  Islem Bouzenia,  Premkumar Devanbu,  Michael Pradel
备注:  
Abstract:Automated program repair has emerged as a powerful technique to mitigate the impact of software bugs on system reliability and user experience. This paper introduces RepairAgent, the first work to address the program repair challenge through an autonomous agent based on a large language model (LLM). Unlike existing deep learning-based approaches, which prompt a model with a fixed prompt or in a fixed feedback loop, our work treats the LLM as an agent capable of autonomously planning and executing actions to fix bugs by invoking suitable tools. RepairAgent freely interleaves gathering information about the bug, gathering repair ingredients, and validating fixes, while deciding which tools to invoke based on the gathered information and feedback from previous fix attempts. Key contributions that enable RepairAgent include a set of tools that are useful for program repair, a dynamically updated prompt format that allows the LLM to interact with these tools, and a finite state machine that guides the agent in invoking the tools. Our evaluation on the popular Defects4J dataset demonstrates RepairAgent's effectiveness in autonomously repairing 164 bugs, including 39 bugs not fixed by prior techniques. Interacting with the LLM imposes an average cost of 270,000 tokens per bug, which, under the current pricing of OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model, translates to 14 cents of USD per bug. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first to present an autonomous, LLM-based agent for program repair, paving the way for future agent-based techniques in software engineering.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [393]
标题:  Exploring the potential of prototype-based soft-labels data distillation  for imbalanced data classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17130
作者:  Radu-Andrei Rosu,  Mihaela-Elena Breaban,  Henri Luchian
备注:  
Abstract:Dataset distillation aims at synthesizing a dataset by a small number of artificially generated data items, which, when used as training data, reproduce or approximate a machine learning (ML) model as if it were trained on the entire original dataset. Consequently, data distillation methods are usually tied to a specific ML algorithm. While recent literature deals mainly with distillation of large collections of images in the context of neural network models, tabular data distillation is much less represented and mainly focused on a theoretical perspective. The current paper explores the potential of a simple distillation technique previously proposed in the context of Less-than-one shot learning. The main goal is to push further the performance of prototype-based soft-labels distillation in terms of classification accuracy, by integrating optimization steps in the distillation process. The analysis is performed on real-world data sets with various degrees of imbalance. Experimental studies trace the capability of the method to distill the data, but also the opportunity to act as an augmentation method, i.e. to generate new data that is able to increase model accuracy when used in conjunction with - as opposed to instead of - the original data.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [394]
标题:  Benchmarking Video Frame Interpolation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17128
作者:  Simon Kiefhaber,  Simon Niklaus,  Feng Liu,  Simone Schaub-Meyer
备注:  this http URL
Abstract:Video frame interpolation, the task of synthesizing new frames in between two or more given ones, is becoming an increasingly popular research target. However, the current evaluation of frame interpolation techniques is not ideal. Due to the plethora of test datasets available and inconsistent computation of error metrics, a coherent and fair comparison across papers is very challenging. Furthermore, new test sets have been proposed as part of method papers so they are unable to provide the in-depth evaluation of a dedicated benchmarking paper. Another severe downside is that these test sets violate the assumption of linearity when given two input frames, making it impossible to solve without an oracle. We hence strongly believe that the community would greatly benefit from a benchmarking paper, which is what we propose. Specifically, we present a benchmark which establishes consistent error metrics by utilizing a submission website that computes them, provides insights by analyzing the interpolation quality with respect to various per-pixel attributes such as the motion magnitude, contains a carefully designed test set adhering to the assumption of linearity by utilizing synthetic data, and evaluates the computational efficiency in a coherent manner.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [395]
标题:  The Strong Pull of Prior Knowledge in Large Language Models and Its  Impact on Emotion Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17125
作者:  Georgios Chochlakis,  Alexandros Potamianos,  Kristina Lerman,  Shrikanth Narayanan
备注:  30 pages, 27 figures
Abstract:In-context Learning (ICL) has emerged as a powerful paradigm for performing natural language tasks with Large Language Models (LLM) without updating the models' parameters, in contrast to the traditional gradient-based finetuning. The promise of ICL is that the LLM can adapt to perform the present task at a competitive or state-of-the-art level at a fraction of the cost. The ability of LLMs to perform tasks in this few-shot manner relies on their background knowledge of the task (or task priors). However, recent work has found that, unlike traditional learning, LLMs are unable to fully integrate information from demonstrations that contrast task priors. This can lead to performance saturation at suboptimal levels, especially for subjective tasks such as emotion recognition, where the mapping from text to emotions can differ widely due to variability in human annotations. In this work, we design experiments and propose measurements to explicitly quantify the consistency of proxies of LLM priors and their pull on the posteriors. We show that LLMs have strong yet inconsistent priors in emotion recognition that ossify their predictions. We also find that the larger the model, the stronger these effects become. Our results suggest that caution is needed when using ICL with larger LLMs for affect-centered tasks outside their pre-training domain and when interpreting ICL results.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [396]
标题:  Grounding Language Plans in Demonstrations Through Counterfactual  Perturbations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17124
作者:  Yanwei Wang,  Tsun-Hsuan Wang,  Jiayuan Mao,  Michael Hagenow,  Julie Shah
备注:  
Abstract:Grounding the common-sense reasoning of Large Language Models in physical domains remains a pivotal yet unsolved problem for embodied AI. Whereas prior works have focused on leveraging LLMs directly for planning in symbolic spaces, this work uses LLMs to guide the search of task structures and constraints implicit in multi-step demonstrations. Specifically, we borrow from manipulation planning literature the concept of mode families, which group robot configurations by specific motion constraints, to serve as an abstraction layer between the high-level language representations of an LLM and the low-level physical trajectories of a robot. By replaying a few human demonstrations with synthetic perturbations, we generate coverage over the demonstrations' state space with additional successful executions as well as counterfactuals that fail the task. Our explanation-based learning framework trains an end-to-end differentiable neural network to predict successful trajectories from failures and as a by-product learns classifiers that ground low-level states and images in mode families without dense labeling. The learned grounding classifiers can further be used to translate language plans into reactive policies in the physical domain in an interpretable manner. We show our approach improves the interpretability and reactivity of imitation learning through 2D navigation and simulated and real robot manipulation tasks. Website: this https URL
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [397]
标题:  A high-order explicit Runge-Kutta approximation technique for the  Shallow Water Equations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17123
作者:  Jean-Luc Guermond,  Matthias Maier,  Eric Tovar
备注:  29 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:We introduce a high-order space-time approximation of the Shallow Water Equations with sources that is invariant-domain preserving (IDP) and well-balanced with respect to rest states. The employed time-stepping technique is a novel explicit Runge-Kutta (ERK) approach which is an extension of the class of ERK-IDP methods introduced by Ern and Guermond (SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 44(5), A3366--A3392, 2022) for systems of non-linear conservation equations. The resulting method is then numerically illustrated through verification and validation.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [398]
标题:  6D Movable Antenna Enhanced Wireless Network Via Discrete Position and  Rotation Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17122
作者:  Xiaodan Shao,  Rui Zhang,  Qijun Jiang,  Robert Schober
备注:  13 pages, double column
Abstract:Six-dimensional movable antenna (6DMA) is an effective approach to improve wireless network capacity by adjusting the 3D positions and 3D rotations of distributed antenna surfaces based on the users' spatial distribution and statistical channel information. Although continuously positioning/rotating 6DMA surfaces can achieve the greatest flexibility and thus the highest capacity improvement, it is difficult to implement due to the discrete movement constraints of practical stepper motors. Thus, in this paper, we consider a 6DMA-aided base station (BS) with only a finite number of possible discrete positions and rotations for the 6DMA surfaces. We aim to maximize the average network capacity for random numbers of users at random locations by jointly optimizing the 3D positions and 3D rotations of multiple 6DMA surfaces at the BS subject to discrete movement constraints. In particular, we consider the practical cases with and without statistical channel knowledge of the users, and propose corresponding offline and online optimization algorithms, by leveraging the Monte Carlo and conditional sample mean (CSM) methods, respectively. Simulation results verify the effectiveness of our proposed offline and online algorithms for discrete position/rotation optimization of 6DMA surfaces as compared to various benchmark schemes with fixed-position antennas (FPAs) and 6DMAs with limited movability. It is shown that 6DMA-BS can significantly enhance wireless network capacity, even under discrete position/rotation constraints, by exploiting the spatial distribution characteristics of the users.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [399]
标题:  Behind the Counter: Exploring the Motivations and Barriers of Online  Counterspeech Writing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17116
作者:  Kaike Ping,  Anisha Kumar,  Xiaohan Ding,  Eugenia Rho
备注:  39 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:Current research mainly explores the attributes and impact of online counterspeech, leaving a gap in understanding of who engages in online counterspeech or what motivates or deters users from participating. To investigate this, we surveyed 458 English-speaking U.S. participants, analyzing key motivations and barriers underlying online counterspeech engagement. We presented each participant with three hate speech examples from a set of 900, spanning race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, and disability, and requested counterspeech responses. Subsequent questions assessed their satisfaction, perceived difficulty, and the effectiveness of their counterspeech. Our findings show that having been a target of online hate is a key driver of frequent online counterspeech engagement. People differ in their motivations and barriers towards engaging in online counterspeech across different demographic groups. Younger individuals, women, those with higher education levels, and regular witnesses to online hate are more reluctant to engage in online counterspeech due to concerns around public exposure, retaliation, and third-party harassment. Varying motivation and barriers in counterspeech engagement also shape how individuals view their own self-authored counterspeech and the difficulty experienced writing it. Additionally, our work explores people's willingness to use AI technologies like ChatGPT for counterspeech writing. Through this work we introduce a multi-item scale for understanding counterspeech motivation and barriers and a more nuanced understanding of the factors shaping online counterspeech engagement.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [400]
标题:  Vision-Based Dexterous Motion Planning by Dynamic Movement Primitives  with Human Hand Demonstration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17111
作者:  Nuo Chen,  Ya-Jun Pan
备注:  
Abstract:This paper proposes a vision-based framework for a 7-degree-of-freedom robotic manipulator, with the primary objective of facilitating its capacity to acquire information from human hand demonstrations for the execution of dexterous pick-and-place tasks. Most existing works only focus on the position demonstration without considering the orientations. In this paper, by employing a single depth camera, MediaPipe is applied to generate the three-dimensional coordinates of a human hand, thereby comprehensively recording the hand's motion, encompassing the trajectory of the wrist, orientation of the hand, and the grasp motion. A mean filter is applied during data pre-processing to smooth the raw data. The demonstration is designed to pick up an object at a specific angle, navigate around obstacles in its path and subsequently, deposit it within a sloped container. The robotic system demonstrates its learning capabilities, facilitated by the implementation of Dynamic Movement Primitives, enabling the assimilation of user actions into its trajectories with different start and end poi
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [401]
标题:  Graph Protection under Multiple Simultaneous Attacks: A Heuristic  Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17108
作者:  Marko Djukanovic,  Stefan Kapunac,  Aleksandar Kartelj,  Dragan Matic
备注:  32 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:This work focuses on developing an effective meta-heuristic approach to protect against simultaneous attacks on nodes of a network modeled using a graph. Specifically, we focus on the $k$-strong Roman domination problem, a generalization of the well-known Roman domination problem on graphs. This general problem is about assigning integer weights to nodes that represent the number of field armies stationed at each node in order to satisfy the protection constraints while minimizing the total weights. These constraints concern the protection of a graph against any simultaneous attack consisting of $k \in \mathbb{N}$ nodes. An attack is considered repelled if each node labeled 0 can be defended by borrowing an army from one of its neighboring nodes, ensuring that the neighbor retains at least one army for self-defense. The $k$-SRD problem has practical applications in various areas, such as developing counter-terrorism strategies or managing supply chain disruptions. The solution to this problem is notoriously difficult to find, as even checking the feasibility of the proposed solution requires an exponential number of steps. We propose a variable neighborhood search algorithm in which the feasibility of the solution is checked by introducing the concept of quasi-feasibility, which is realized by careful sampling within the set of all possible attacks. Extensive experimental evaluations show the scalability and robustness of the proposed approach compared to the two exact approaches from the literature. Experiments are conducted with random networks from the literature and newly introduced random wireless networks as well as with real-world networks. A practical application scenario, using real-world networks, involves applying our approach to graphs extracted from GeoJSON files containing geographic features of hundreds of cities or larger regions.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [402]
标题:  Design Principles of Dynamic Resource Management for High-Performance  Parallel Programming Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17107
作者:  Dominik Huber,  Martin Schreiber,  Martin Schulz,  Howard Pritchard,  Daniel Holmes
备注:  
Abstract:With Dynamic Resource Management (DRM) the resources assigned to a job can be changed dynamically during its execution. From the system's perspective, DRM opens a new level of flexibility in resource allocation and job scheduling and therefore has the potential to improve system efficiency metrics such as the utilization rate, job throughput, energy efficiency, and responsiveness. From the application perspective, users can tailor the resources they request to their needs offering potential optimizations in queuing time or charged costs. Despite these obvious advantages and many attempts over the last decade to establish DRM in HPC, it remains a concept discussed in academia rather than being successfully deployed on production systems. This stems from the fact that support for DRM requires changes in all the layers of the HPC system software stack including applications, programming models, process managers, and resource management software, as well as an extensive and holistic co-design process to establish new techniques and policies for scheduling and resource optimization. In this work, we therefore start with the assumption that resources are accessible by processes executed either on them (e.g., on CPU) or controlling them (e.g., GPU-offloading). Then, the overall DRM problem can be decomposed into dynamic process management (DPM) and dynamic resource mapping or allocation (DRA). The former determines which processes (or which change in processes) must be managed and the latter identifies the resources where they will be executed. The interfaces for such \mbox{DPM/DPA} in these layers need to be standardized, which requires a careful design to be interoperable while providing high flexibility. Based on a survey of existing approaches we propose design principles, that form the basis of a holistic approach to DMR in HPC and provide a prototype implementation using MPI.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [403]
标题:  Stochastic Gradient Langevin Unlearning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17105
作者:  Eli Chien,  Haoyu Wang,  Ziang Chen,  Pan Li
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2401.10371
Abstract:``The right to be forgotten'' ensured by laws for user data privacy becomes increasingly important. Machine unlearning aims to efficiently remove the effect of certain data points on the trained model parameters so that it can be approximately the same as if one retrains the model from scratch. This work proposes stochastic gradient Langevin unlearning, the first unlearning framework based on noisy stochastic gradient descent (SGD) with privacy guarantees for approximate unlearning problems under convexity assumption. Our results show that mini-batch gradient updates provide a superior privacy-complexity trade-off compared to the full-batch counterpart. There are numerous algorithmic benefits of our unlearning approach, including complexity saving compared to retraining, and supporting sequential and batch unlearning. To examine the privacy-utility-complexity trade-off of our method, we conduct experiments on benchmark datasets compared against prior works. Our approach achieves a similar utility under the same privacy constraint while using $2\%$ and $10\%$ of the gradient computations compared with the state-of-the-art gradient-based approximate unlearning methods for mini-batch and full-batch settings, respectively.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [404]
标题:  Attribute First, then Generate: Locally-attributable Grounded Text  Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17104
作者:  Aviv Slobodkin,  Eran Hirsch,  Arie Cattan,  Tal Schuster,  Ido Dagan
备注:  
Abstract:Recent efforts to address hallucinations in Large Language Models (LLMs) have focused on attributed text generation, which supplements generated texts with citations of supporting sources for post-generation fact-checking and corrections. Yet, these citations often point to entire documents or paragraphs, burdening users with extensive verification work. In this paper, we introduce a locally-attributable text generation approach, prioritizing concise attributions. Our method, named ``Attribute First, then Generate'', breaks down the conventional end-to-end generation process into three intuitive steps: content selection, sentence planning, and sequential sentence generation. By initially identifying relevant source segments (``select first'') and then conditioning the generation process on them (``then generate''), we ensure these segments also act as the output's fine-grained attributions (``select'' becomes ``attribute''). Tested on Multi-document Summarization and Long-form Question-answering, our method not only yields more concise citations than the baselines but also maintains - and in some cases enhances - both generation quality and attribution accuracy. Furthermore, it significantly reduces the time required for fact verification by human assessors.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [405]
标题:  Animal Avatars: Reconstructing Animatable 3D Animals from Casual Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17103
作者:  Remy Sabathier,  Niloy J. Mitra,  David Novotny
备注:  
Abstract:We present a method to build animatable dog avatars from monocular videos. This is challenging as animals display a range of (unpredictable) non-rigid movements and have a variety of appearance details (e.g., fur, spots, tails). We develop an approach that links the video frames via a 4D solution that jointly solves for animal's pose variation, and its appearance (in a canonical pose). To this end, we significantly improve the quality of template-based shape fitting by endowing the SMAL parametric model with Continuous Surface Embeddings, which brings image-to-mesh reprojection constaints that are denser, and thus stronger, than the previously used sparse semantic keypoint correspondences. To model appearance, we propose an implicit duplex-mesh texture that is defined in the canonical pose, but can be deformed using SMAL pose coefficients and later rendered to enforce a photometric compatibility with the input video frames. On the challenging CoP3D and APTv2 datasets, we demonstrate superior results (both in terms of pose estimates and predicted appearance) to existing template-free (RAC) and template-based approaches (BARC, BITE).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [406]
标题:  AI Consciousness is Inevitable: A Theoretical Computer Science  Perspective
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17101
作者:  Lenore Blum,  Manuel Blum
备注:  
Abstract:We look at consciousness through the lens of Theoretical Computer Science, a branch of mathematics that studies computation under resource limitations. From this perspective, we develop a formal machine model for consciousness. The model is inspired by Alan Turing's simple yet powerful model of computation and Bernard Baars' theater model of consciousness. Though extremely simple, the model aligns at a high level with many of the major scientific theories of human and animal consciousness, supporting our claim that machine consciousness is inevitable.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [407]
标题:  Berry Twist: a Twisting-Tube Soft Robotic Gripper for Blackberry  Harvesting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17099
作者:  Johannes F. Elfferich,  Ebrahim Shahabi,  Cosimo Della Santina,  Dimitra Dodou
备注:  
Abstract:As global demand for fruits and vegetables continues to rise, the agricultural industry faces challenges in securing adequate labor. Robotic harvesting devices offer a promising solution to solve this issue. However, harvesting delicate fruits, notably blackberries, poses unique challenges due to their fragility. This study introduces and evaluates a prototype robotic gripper specifically designed for blackberry harvesting. The gripper features an innovative fabric tube mechanism employing motorized twisting action to gently envelop the fruit, ensuring uniform pressure application and minimizing damage. Three types of tubes were developed, varying in elasticity and compressibility using foam padding, spandex, and food-safe cotton cheesecloth. Performance testing focused on assessing each gripper's ability to detach and release blackberries, with emphasis on quantifying damage rates. Results indicate the proposed gripper achieved an 82% success rate in detaching blackberries and a 95% success rate in releasing them, showcasing the promised potential for robotic harvesting applications.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [408]
标题:  SynFog: A Photo-realistic Synthetic Fog Dataset based on End-to-end  Imaging Simulation for Advancing Real-World Defogging in Autonomous Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17094
作者:  Yiming Xie,  Henglu Wei,  Zhenyi Liu,  Xiaoyu Wang,  Xiangyang Ji
备注:  
Abstract:To advance research in learning-based defogging algorithms, various synthetic fog datasets have been developed. However, existing datasets created using the Atmospheric Scattering Model (ASM) or real-time rendering engines often struggle to produce photo-realistic foggy images that accurately mimic the actual imaging process. This limitation hinders the effective generalization of models from synthetic to real data. In this paper, we introduce an end-to-end simulation pipeline designed to generate photo-realistic foggy images. This pipeline comprehensively considers the entire physically-based foggy scene imaging process, closely aligning with real-world image capture methods. Based on this pipeline, we present a new synthetic fog dataset named SynFog, which features both sky light and active lighting conditions, as well as three levels of fog density. Experimental results demonstrate that models trained on SynFog exhibit superior performance in visual perception and detection accuracy compared to others when applied to real-world foggy images.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [409]
标题:  Enhancing UAV Security Through Zero Trust Architecture: An Advanced Deep  Learning and Explainable AI Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17093
作者:  Ekramul Haque,  Kamrul Hasan,  Imtiaz Ahmed,  Md. Sahabul Alam,  Tariqul Islam
备注:  6 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:In the dynamic and ever-changing domain of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), the utmost importance lies in guaranteeing resilient and lucid security measures. This study highlights the necessity of implementing a Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) to enhance the security of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), hence departing from conventional perimeter defences that may expose vulnerabilities. The Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) paradigm requires a rigorous and continuous process of authenticating all network entities and communications. The accuracy of our methodology in detecting and identifying unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is 84.59\%. This is achieved by utilizing Radio Frequency (RF) signals within a Deep Learning framework, a unique method. Precise identification is crucial in Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA), as it determines network access. In addition, the use of eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) tools such as SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) and Local Interpretable Model-agnostic Explanations (LIME) contributes to the improvement of the model's transparency and interpretability. Adherence to Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA) standards guarantees that the classifications of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are verifiable and comprehensible, enhancing security within the UAV field.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [410]
标题:  A Unified CPU-GPU Protocol for GNN Training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17092
作者:  Yi-Chien Lin,  Gangda Deng,  Viktor Prasanna
备注:  To appear in 21st ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers (CF' 24)
Abstract:Training a Graph Neural Network (GNN) model on large-scale graphs involves a high volume of data communication and compu- tations. While state-of-the-art CPUs and GPUs feature high computing power, the Standard GNN training protocol adopted in existing GNN frameworks cannot efficiently utilize the platform resources. To this end, we propose a novel Unified CPU-GPU protocol that can improve the resource utilization of GNN training on a CPU-GPU platform. The Unified CPU-GPU protocol instantiates multiple GNN training processes in parallel on both the CPU and the GPU. By allocating training processes on the CPU to perform GNN training collaboratively with the GPU, the proposed protocol improves the platform resource utilization and reduces the CPU-GPU data transfer overhead. Since the performance of a CPU and a GPU varies, we develop a novel load balancer that balances the workload dynamically between CPUs and GPUs during runtime. We evaluate our protocol using two representative GNN sampling algorithms, with two widely-used GNN models, on three datasets. Compared with the standard training protocol adopted in the state-of-the-art GNN frameworks, our protocol effectively improves resource utilization and overall training time. On a platform where the GPU moderately outperforms the CPU, our protocol speeds up GNN training by up to 1.41x. On a platform where the GPU significantly outperforms the CPU, our protocol speeds up GNN training by up to 1.26x. Our protocol is open-sourced and can be seamlessly integrated into state-of-the-art GNN frameworks and accelerate GNN training. Our protocol particularly benefits those with limited GPU access due to its high demand.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [411]
标题:  Offline Reinforcement Learning: Role of State Aggregation and Trajectory  Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17091
作者:  Zeyu Jia,  Alexander Rakhlin,  Ayush Sekhari,  Chen-Yu Wei
备注:  
Abstract:We revisit the problem of offline reinforcement learning with value function realizability but without Bellman completeness. Previous work by Xie and Jiang (2021) and Foster et al. (2022) left open the question whether a bounded concentrability coefficient along with trajectory-based offline data admits a polynomial sample complexity. In this work, we provide a negative answer to this question for the task of offline policy evaluation. In addition to addressing this question, we provide a rather complete picture for offline policy evaluation with only value function realizability. Our primary findings are threefold: 1) The sample complexity of offline policy evaluation is governed by the concentrability coefficient in an aggregated Markov Transition Model jointly determined by the function class and the offline data distribution, rather than that in the original MDP. This unifies and generalizes the ideas of Xie and Jiang (2021) and Foster et al. (2022), 2) The concentrability coefficient in the aggregated Markov Transition Model may grow exponentially with the horizon length, even when the concentrability coefficient in the original MDP is small and the offline data is admissible (i.e., the data distribution equals the occupancy measure of some policy), 3) Under value function realizability, there is a generic reduction that can convert any hard instance with admissible data to a hard instance with trajectory data, implying that trajectory data offers no extra benefits over admissible data. These three pieces jointly resolve the open problem, though each of them could be of independent interest.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [412]
标题:  Free Sets in Planar Graphs: History and Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17090
作者:  Vida Dujmovic,  Pat Morin
备注:  31 pages
Abstract:A subset $S$ of vertices in a planar graph $G$ is a free set if, for every set $P$ of $|S|$ points in the plane, there exists a straight-line crossing-free drawing of $G$ in which vertices of $S$ are mapped to distinct points in $P$. In this survey, we review - several equivalent definitions of free sets, - results on the existence of large free sets in planar graphs and subclasses of planar graphs, - and applications of free sets in graph drawing. The survey concludes with a list of open problems in this still very active research area.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [413]
标题:  GOLF: Goal-Oriented Long-term liFe tasks supported by human-AI  collaboration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17089
作者:  Ben Wang
备注:  
Abstract:The advent of ChatGPT and similar large language models (LLMs) has revolutionized the human-AI interaction and information-seeking process. Leveraging LLMs as an alternative to search engines, users can now access summarized information tailored to their queries, significantly reducing the cognitive load associated with navigating vast information resources. This shift underscores the potential of LLMs in redefining information access paradigms. Drawing on the foundation of task-focused information retrieval and LLMs' task planning ability, this research extends the scope of LLM capabilities beyond routine task automation to support users in navigating long-term and significant life tasks. It introduces the GOLF framework (Goal-Oriented Long-term liFe tasks), which focuses on enhancing LLMs' ability to assist in significant life decisions through goal orientation and long-term planning. The methodology encompasses a comprehensive simulation study to test the framework's efficacy, followed by model and human evaluations to develop a dataset benchmark for long-term life tasks, and experiments across different models and settings. By shifting the focus from short-term tasks to the broader spectrum of long-term life goals, this research underscores the transformative potential of LLMs in enhancing human decision-making processes and task management, marking a significant step forward in the evolution of human-AI collaboration.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [414]
标题:  A Comparative Analysis of Visual Odometry in Virtual and Real-World  Railways Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17084
作者:  Gianluca D'Amico,  Mauro Marinoni,  Giorgio Buttazzo
备注:  
Abstract:Perception tasks play a crucial role in the development of automated operations and systems across multiple application fields. In the railway transportation domain, these tasks can improve the safety, reliability, and efficiency of various perations, including train localization, signal recognition, and track discrimination. However, collecting considerable and precisely labeled datasets for testing such novel algorithms poses extreme challenges in the railway environment due to the severe restrictions in accessing the infrastructures and the practical difficulties associated with properly equipping trains with the required sensors, such as cameras and LiDARs. The remarkable innovations of graphic engine tools offer new solutions to craft realistic synthetic datasets. To illustrate the advantages of employing graphic simulation for early-stage testing of perception tasks in the railway domain, this paper presents a comparative analysis of the performance of a SLAM algorithm applied both in a virtual synthetic environment and a real-world scenario. The analysis leverages virtual railway environments created with the latest version of Unreal Engine, facilitating data collection and allowing the examination of challenging scenarios, including low-visibility, dangerous operational modes, and complex environments. The results highlight the feasibility and potentiality of graphic simulation to advance perception tasks in the railway domain.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [415]
标题:  GGDMiner - Discovery of Graph Generating Dependencies for Graph Data  Profiling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17082
作者:  Larissa C. Shimomura,  Nikolay Yakovets,  George Fletcher
备注:  
Abstract:With the increasing use of graph-structured data, there is also increasing interest in investigating graph data dependencies and their applications, e.g., in graph data profiling. Graph Generating Dependencies (GGDs) are a class of dependencies for property graphs that can express the relation between different graph patterns and constraints based on their attribute similarities. Rich syntax and semantics of GGDs make them a good candidate for graph data profiling. Nonetheless, GGDs are difficult to define manually, especially when there are no data experts available. In this paper, we propose GGDMiner, a framework for discovering approximate GGDs from graph data automatically, with the intention of profiling graph data through GGDs for the user. GGDMiner has three main steps: (1) pre-processing, (2) candidate generation, and, (3) GGD extraction. To optimize memory consumption and execution time, GGDMiner uses a factorized representation of each discovered graph pattern, called Answer Graph. Our results show that the discovered set of GGDs can give an overview about the input graph, both schema level information and also correlations between the graph patterns and attributes.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [416]
标题:  Machine Learning on Blockchain Data: A Systematic Mapping Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17081
作者:  Georgios Palaiokrassas,  Sarah Bouraga,  Leandros Tassiulas
备注:  
Abstract:Context: Blockchain technology has drawn growing attention in the literature and in practice. Blockchain technology generates considerable amounts of data and has thus been a topic of interest for Machine Learning (ML). Objective: The objective of this paper is to provide a comprehensive review of the state of the art on machine learning applied to blockchain data. This work aims to systematically identify, analyze, and classify the literature on ML applied to blockchain data. This will allow us to discover the fields where more effort should be placed in future research. Method: A systematic mapping study has been conducted to identify the relevant literature. Ultimately, 159 articles were selected and classified according to various dimensions, specifically, the domain use case, the blockchain, the data, and the machine learning models. Results: The majority of the papers (49.7%) fall within the Anomaly use case. Bitcoin (47.2%) was the blockchain that drew the most attention. A dataset consisting of more than 1.000.000 data points was used by 31.4% of the papers. And Classification (46.5%) was the ML task most applied to blockchain data. Conclusion: The results confirm that ML applied to blockchain data is a relevant and a growing topic of interest both in the literature and in practice. Nevertheless, some open challenges and gaps remain, which can lead to future research directions. Specifically, we identify novel machine learning algorithms, the lack of a standardization framework, blockchain scalability issues and cross-chain interactions as areas worth exploring in the future.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [417]
标题:  Semantic Ranking for Automated Adversarial Technique Annotation in  Security Text
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17068
作者:  Udesh Kumarasinghe,  Ahmed Lekssays,  Husrev Taha Sencar,  Sabri Boughorbel,  Charitha Elvitigala,  Preslav Nakov
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce a new method for extracting structured threat behaviors from threat intelligence text. Our method is based on a multi-stage ranking architecture that allows jointly optimizing for efficiency and effectiveness. Therefore, we believe this problem formulation better aligns with the real-world nature of the task considering the large number of adversary techniques and the extensive body of threat intelligence created by security analysts. Our findings show that the proposed system yields state-of-the-art performance results for this task. Results show that our method has a top-3 recall performance of 81\% in identifying the relevant technique among 193 top-level techniques. Our tests also demonstrate that our system performs significantly better (+40\%) than the widely used large language models when tested under a zero-shot setting.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [418]
标题:  Trajectory Optimization with Global Yaw Parameterization for  Field-of-View Constrained Autonomous Flight
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17067
作者:  Yuwei Wu,  Yuezhan Tao,  Igor Spasojevic,  Vijay Kumar
备注:  
Abstract:Trajectory generation for quadrotors with limited field-of-view sensors has numerous applications such as aerial exploration, coverage, inspection, videography, and target tracking. Most previous works simplify the task of optimizing yaw trajectories by either aligning the heading of the robot with its velocity, or potentially restricting the feasible space of candidate trajectories by using a limited yaw domain to circumvent angular singularities. In this paper, we propose a novel \textit{global} yaw parameterization method for trajectory optimization that allows a 360-degree yaw variation as demanded by the underlying algorithm. This approach effectively bypasses inherent singularities by including supplementary quadratic constraints and transforming the final decision variables into the desired state representation. This method significantly reduces the needed control effort, and improves optimization feasibility. Furthermore, we apply the method to several examples of different applications that require jointly optimizing over both the yaw and position trajectories. Ultimately, we present a comprehensive numerical analysis and evaluation of our proposed method in both simulation and real-world experiments.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [419]
标题:  Continuous, Subject-Specific Attribute Control in T2I Models by  Identifying Semantic Directions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17064
作者:  Stefan Andreas Baumann,  Felix Krause,  Michael Neumayr,  Nick Stracke,  Vincent Tao Hu,  Björn Ommer
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:In recent years, advances in text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models have substantially elevated the quality of their generated images. However, achieving fine-grained control over attributes remains a challenge due to the limitations of natural language prompts (such as no continuous set of intermediate descriptions existing between ``person'' and ``old person''). Even though many methods were introduced that augment the model or generation process to enable such control, methods that do not require a fixed reference image are limited to either enabling global fine-grained attribute expression control or coarse attribute expression control localized to specific subjects, not both simultaneously. We show that there exist directions in the commonly used token-level CLIP text embeddings that enable fine-grained subject-specific control of high-level attributes in text-to-image models. Based on this observation, we introduce one efficient optimization-free and one robust optimization-based method to identify these directions for specific attributes from contrastive text prompts. We demonstrate that these directions can be used to augment the prompt text input with fine-grained control over attributes of specific subjects in a compositional manner (control over multiple attributes of a single subject) without having to adapt the diffusion model. Project page: this https URL. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [420]
标题:  Enhancing Graph Representation Learning with Attention-Driven Spiking  Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17040
作者:  Huifeng Yin,  Mingkun Xu,  Jing Pei,  Lei Deng
备注:  
Abstract:Graph representation learning has become a crucial task in machine learning and data mining due to its potential for modeling complex structures such as social networks, chemical compounds, and biological systems. Spiking neural networks (SNNs) have recently emerged as a promising alternative to traditional neural networks for graph learning tasks, benefiting from their ability to efficiently encode and process temporal and spatial information. In this paper, we propose a novel approach that integrates attention mechanisms with SNNs to improve graph representation learning. Specifically, we introduce an attention mechanism for SNN that can selectively focus on important nodes and corresponding features in a graph during the learning process. We evaluate our proposed method on several benchmark datasets and show that it achieves comparable performance compared to existing graph learning techniques.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [421]
标题:  Union: An Automatic Workload Manager for Accelerating Network Simulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17036
作者:  Xin Wang,  Misbah Mubarak,  Yao Kang,  Robert B. Ross,  Zhiling Lan
备注:  
Abstract:With the rapid growth of the machine learning applications, the workloads of future HPC systems are anticipated to be a mix of scientific simulation, big data analytics, and machine learning applications. Simulation is a great research vehicle to understand the performance implications of co-running scientific applications with big data and machine learning workloads on large-scale systems. In this paper, we present Union, a workload manager that provides an automatic framework to facilitate hybrid workload simulation in CODES. Furthermore, we use Union, along with CODES, to investigate various hybrid workloads composed of traditional simulation applications and emerging learning applications on two dragonfly systems. The experiment results show that both message latency and communication time are important performance metrics to evaluate network interference. Network interference on HPC applications is more reflected by the message latency variation, whereas ML application performance depends more on the communication time.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [422]
标题:  Stochastic parameter reduced-order model based on hybrid machine  learning approaches
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17032
作者:  Cheng Fang,  Jinqiao Duan
备注:  
Abstract:Establishing appropriate mathematical models for complex systems in natural phenomena not only helps deepen our understanding of nature but can also be used for state estimation and prediction. However, the extreme complexity of natural phenomena makes it extremely challenging to develop full-order models (FOMs) and apply them to studying many quantities of interest. In contrast, appropriate reduced-order models (ROMs) are favored due to their high computational efficiency and ability to describe the key dynamics and statistical characteristics of natural phenomena. Taking the viscous Burgers equation as an example, this paper constructs a Convolutional Autoencoder-Reservoir Computing-Normalizing Flow algorithm framework, where the Convolutional Autoencoder is used to construct latent space representations, and the Reservoir Computing-Normalizing Flow framework is used to characterize the evolution of latent state variables. In this way, a data-driven stochastic parameter reduced-order model is constructed to describe the complex system and its dynamic behavior.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [423]
标题:  The N+ Implementation Details of RLHF with PPO: A Case Study on TL;DR  Summarization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17031
作者:  Shengyi Huang,  Michael Noukhovitch,  Arian Hosseini,  Kashif Rasul,  Weixun Wang,  Lewis Tunstall
备注:  
Abstract:This work is the first to openly reproduce the Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) scaling behaviors reported in OpenAI's seminal TL;DR summarization work. We create an RLHF pipeline from scratch, enumerate over 20 key implementation details, and share key insights during the reproduction. Our RLHF-trained Pythia models demonstrate significant gains in response quality that scale with model size, with our 2.8B, 6.9B models outperforming OpenAI's released 1.3B checkpoint. We publicly release the trained model checkpoints and code to facilitate further research and accelerate progress in the field (\url{this https URL}).
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [424]
标题:  Boosting Few-Shot Learning via Attentive Feature Regularization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17025
作者:  Xingyu Zhu,  Shuo Wang,  Jinda Lu,  Yanbin Hao,  Haifeng Liu,  Xiangnan He
备注:  Accepted to AAAI 2024
Abstract:Few-shot learning (FSL) based on manifold regularization aims to improve the recognition capacity of novel objects with limited training samples by mixing two samples from different categories with a blending factor. However, this mixing operation weakens the feature representation due to the linear interpolation and the overlooking of the importance of specific channels. To solve these issues, this paper proposes attentive feature regularization (AFR) which aims to improve the feature representativeness and discriminability. In our approach, we first calculate the relations between different categories of semantic labels to pick out the related features used for regularization. Then, we design two attention-based calculations at both the instance and channel levels. These calculations enable the regularization procedure to focus on two crucial aspects: the feature complementarity through adaptive interpolation in related categories and the emphasis on specific feature channels. Finally, we combine these regularization strategies to significantly improve the classifier performance. Empirical studies on several popular FSL benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of AFR, which improves the recognition accuracy of novel categories without the need to retrain any feature extractor, especially in the 1-shot setting. Furthermore, the proposed AFR can seamlessly integrate into other FSL methods to improve classification performance.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [425]
标题:  Uncertainty quantification in the Henry problem using the multilevel  Monte Carlo method
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17018
作者:  Dmitry Logashenko,  Alexander Litvinenko,  Raul Tempone,  Ekaterina Vasilyeva,  Gabriel Wittum
备注:  20 pages, 11 figures, 3 tables. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2302.07804
Abstract:We investigate the applicability of the well-known multilevel Monte Carlo (MLMC) method to the class of density-driven flow problems, in particular the problem of salinisation of coastal aquifers. As a test case, we solve the uncertain Henry saltwater intrusion problem. Unknown porosity, permeability and recharge parameters are modelled by using random fields. The classical deterministic Henry problem is non-linear and time-dependent, and can easily take several hours of computing time. Uncertain settings require the solution of multiple realisations of the deterministic problem, and the total computational cost increases drastically. Instead of computing of hundreds random realisations, typically the mean value and the variance are computed. The standard methods such as the Monte Carlo or surrogate-based methods is a good choice, but they compute all stochastic realisations on the same, often, very fine mesh. They also do not balance the stochastic and discretisation errors. These facts motivated us to apply the MLMC method. We demonstrate that by solving the Henry problem on multi-level spatial and temporal meshes, the MLMC method reduces the overall computational and storage costs. To reduce the computing cost further, parallelization is performed in both physical and stochastic spaces. To solve each deterministic scenario, we run the parallel multigrid solver ug4 in a black-box fashion.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Other Statistics (stat.OT)

**编号**: [426]
标题:  Seer: Predictive Runtime Kernel Selection for Irregular Problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17017
作者:  Ryan Swann,  Muhammad Osama,  Karthik Sangaiah,  Jalal Mahmud
备注:  
Abstract:Modern GPUs are designed for regular problems and suffer from load imbalance when processing irregular data. Prior to our work, a domain expert selects the best kernel to map fine-grained irregular parallelism to a GPU. We instead propose Seer, an abstraction for producing a simple, reproduceable, and understandable decision tree selector model which performs runtime kernel selection for irregular workloads. To showcase our framework, we conduct a case study in Sparse Matrix Vector Multiplication (SpMV), in which Seer predicts the best strategy for a given dataset with an improvement of 2$\times$ over the best single iteration kernel across the entire SuiteSparse Matrix Collection dataset.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [427]
标题:  HEAL-ViT: Vision Transformers on a spherical mesh for medium-range  weather forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17016
作者:  Vivek Ramavajjala
备注:  18 pages, 14 figures, preprint
Abstract:In recent years, a variety of ML architectures and techniques have seen success in producing skillful medium range weather forecasts. In particular, Vision Transformer (ViT)-based models (e.g. Pangu-Weather, FuXi) have shown strong performance, working nearly "out-of-the-box" by treating weather data as a multi-channel image on a rectilinear grid. While a rectilinear grid is appropriate for 2D images, weather data is inherently spherical and thus heavily distorted at the poles on a rectilinear grid, leading to disproportionate compute being used to model data near the poles. Graph-based methods (e.g. GraphCast) do not suffer from this problem, as they map the longitude-latitude grid to a spherical mesh, but are generally more memory intensive and tend to need more compute resources for training and inference. While spatially homogeneous, the spherical mesh does not lend itself readily to be modeled by ViT-based models that implicitly rely on the rectilinear grid structure. We present HEAL-ViT, a novel architecture that uses ViT models on a spherical mesh, thus benefiting from both the spatial homogeneity enjoyed by graph-based models and efficient attention-based mechanisms exploited by transformers. HEAL-ViT produces weather forecasts that outperform the ECMWF IFS on key metrics, and demonstrate better bias accumulation and blurring than other ML weather prediction models. Further, the lowered compute footprint of HEAL-ViT makes it attractive for operational use as well, where other models in addition to a 6-hourly prediction model may be needed to produce the full set of operational forecasts required.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph)

**编号**: [428]
标题:  Contrastive Learning for Regression on Hyperspectral Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17014
作者:  Mohamad Dhaini,  Maxime Berar,  Paul Honeine,  Antonin Van Exem
备注:  Accepted in IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) 2024
Abstract:Contrastive learning has demonstrated great effectiveness in representation learning especially for image classification tasks. However, there is still a shortage in the studies targeting regression tasks, and more specifically applications on hyperspectral data. In this paper, we propose a contrastive learning framework for the regression tasks for hyperspectral data. To this end, we provide a collection of transformations relevant for augmenting hyperspectral data, and investigate contrastive learning for regression. Experiments on synthetic and real hyperspectral datasets show that the proposed framework and transformations significantly improve the performance of regression models, achieving better scores than other state-of-the-art transformations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [429]
标题:  Temporal-Spatial Processing of Event Camera Data via Delay-Loop  Reservoir Neural Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17013
作者:  Richard Lau,  Anthony Tylan-Tyler,  Lihan Yao,  Rey de Castro Roberto,  Robert Taylor,  Isaiah Jones
备注:  10 pages, 12 figures, Darpa Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution Unlimited
Abstract:This paper describes a temporal-spatial model for video processing with special applications to processing event camera videos. We propose to study a conjecture motivated by our previous study of video processing with delay loop reservoir (DLR) neural network, which we call Temporal-Spatial Conjecture (TSC). The TSC postulates that there is significant information content carried in the temporal representation of a video signal and that machine learning algorithms would benefit from separate optimization of the spatial and temporal components for intelligent processing. To verify or refute the TSC, we propose a Visual Markov Model (VMM) which decompose the video into spatial and temporal components and estimate the mutual information (MI) of these components. Since computation of video mutual information is complex and time consuming, we use a Mutual Information Neural Network to estimate the bounds of the mutual information. Our result shows that the temporal component carries significant MI compared to that of the spatial component. This finding has often been overlooked in neural network literature. In this paper, we will exploit this new finding to guide our design of a delay-loop reservoir neural network for event camera classification, which results in a 18% improvement on classification accuracy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [430]
标题:  Evolution and Efficiency in Neural Architecture Search: Bridging the Gap  Between Expert Design and Automated Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17012
作者:  Fanfei Meng,  Chen-Ao Wang,  Alexander Brown
备注:  11 pages
Abstract:The paper provides a comprehensive overview of Neural Architecture Search (NAS), emphasizing its evolution from manual design to automated, computationally-driven approaches. It covers the inception and growth of NAS, highlighting its application across various domains, including medical imaging and natural language processing. The document details the shift from expert-driven design to algorithm-driven processes, exploring initial methodologies like reinforcement learning and evolutionary algorithms. It also discusses the challenges of computational demands and the emergence of efficient NAS methodologies, such as Differentiable Architecture Search and hardware-aware NAS. The paper further elaborates on NAS's application in computer vision, NLP, and beyond, demonstrating its versatility and potential for optimizing neural network architectures across different tasks. Future directions and challenges, including computational efficiency and the integration with emerging AI domains, are addressed, showcasing NAS's dynamic nature and its continued evolution towards more sophisticated and efficient architecture search methods.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [431]
标题:  SUDO: a framework for evaluating clinical artificial intelligence  systems without ground-truth annotations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17011
作者:  Dani Kiyasseh,  Aaron Cohen,  Chengsheng Jiang,  Nicholas Altieri
备注:  
Abstract:A clinical artificial intelligence (AI) system is often validated on a held-out set of data which it has not been exposed to before (e.g., data from a different hospital with a distinct electronic health record system). This evaluation process is meant to mimic the deployment of an AI system on data in the wild; those which are currently unseen by the system yet are expected to be encountered in a clinical setting. However, when data in the wild differ from the held-out set of data, a phenomenon referred to as distribution shift, and lack ground-truth annotations, it becomes unclear the extent to which AI-based findings can be trusted on data in the wild. Here, we introduce SUDO, a framework for evaluating AI systems without ground-truth annotations. SUDO assigns temporary labels to data points in the wild and directly uses them to train distinct models, with the highest performing model indicative of the most likely label. Through experiments with AI systems developed for dermatology images, histopathology patches, and clinical reports, we show that SUDO can be a reliable proxy for model performance and thus identify unreliable predictions. We also demonstrate that SUDO informs the selection of models and allows for the previously out-of-reach assessment of algorithmic bias for data in the wild without ground-truth annotations. The ability to triage unreliable predictions for further inspection and assess the algorithmic bias of AI systems can improve the integrity of research findings and contribute to the deployment of ethical AI systems in medicine.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [432]
标题:  Reciprocity Calibration of Dual-Antenna Repeaters
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17908
作者:  Erik G. Larsson,  Joao Vieira,  Pål Frenger
备注:  IEEE Wireless Communications Letters, 2024
Abstract:We present a reciprocity calibration method for dual-antenna repeaters in wireless networks. The method uses bi-directional measurements between two network nodes, A and B, where for each bi-directional measurement, the repeaters are configured in different states. The nodes A and B could be two access points in a distributed MIMO system, or they could be a base station and a mobile user terminal, for example. From the calibration measurements, the differences between the repeaters' forward and reverse gains are estimated. The repeaters are then (re-)configured to compensate for these differences such that the repeaters appear, transparently to the network, as reciprocal components of the propagation environment, enabling reciprocity-based beamforming in the network.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [433]
标题:  Scalable Non-Cartesian Magnetic Resonance Imaging with R2D2
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17905
作者:  Chen Yiwei,  Tang Chao,  Aghabiglou Amir,  Chu Chung San,  Wiaux Yves
备注:  submitted to IEEE EUSIPCO 2024
Abstract:We propose a new approach for non-Cartesian magnetic resonance image reconstruction. While unrolled architectures provide robustness via data-consistency layers, embedding measurement operators in Deep Neural Network (DNN) can become impractical at large scale. Alternative Plug-and-Play (PnP) approaches, where the denoising DNNs are blind to the measurement setting, are not affected by this limitation and have also proven effective, but their highly iterative nature also affects scalability. To address this scalability challenge, we leverage the "Residual-to-Residual DNN series for high-Dynamic range imaging (R2D2)" approach recently introduced in astronomical imaging. R2D2's reconstruction is formed as a series of residual images, iteratively estimated as outputs of DNNs taking the previous iteration's image estimate and associated data residual as inputs. The method can be interpreted as a learned version of the Matching Pursuit algorithm. We demonstrate R2D2 in simulation, considering radial k-space sampling acquisition sequences. Our preliminary results suggest that R2D2 achieves: (i) suboptimal performance compared to its unrolled incarnation R2D2-Net, which is however non-scalable due to the necessary embedding of NUFFT-based data-consistency layers; (ii) superior reconstruction quality to a scalable version of R2D2-Net embedding an FFT-based approximation for data consistency; (iii) superior reconstruction quality to PnP, while only requiring few iterations.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [434]
标题:  Serpent: Scalable and Efficient Image Restoration via Multi-scale  Structured State Space Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17902
作者:  Mohammad Shahab Sepehri,  Zalan Fabian,  Mahdi Soltanolkotabi
备注:  7 pages, 5 figures, preliminary workshop submission of a comprehensive work to be released soon
Abstract:The landscape of computational building blocks of efficient image restoration architectures is dominated by a combination of convolutional processing and various attention mechanisms. However, convolutional filters are inherently local and therefore struggle at modeling long-range dependencies in images. On the other hand, attention excels at capturing global interactions between arbitrary image regions, however at a quadratic cost in image dimension. In this work, we propose Serpent, an architecture that leverages recent advances in state space models (SSMs) in its core computational block. SSMs, originally introduced for sequence modeling, can maintain a global receptive field with a favorable linear scaling in input size. Our preliminary results demonstrate that Serpent can achieve reconstruction quality on par with state-of-the-art techniques, while requiring orders of magnitude less compute (up to $150$ fold reduction in FLOPS) and a factor of up to $5\times$ less GPU memory while maintaining a compact model size.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [435]
标题:  Density of group languages in shift spaces
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17892
作者:  Valérie Berthé,  Herman Goulet-Ouellet,  Carl-Fredrik Nyberg Brodda,  Dominique Perrin,  Karl Petersen
备注:  
Abstract:We study the density of group languages (i.e. rational languages recognized by morphisms onto finite groups) inside shift spaces. The density of a rational language can be understood as the frequency of some "pattern" in the shift space, for example a pattern like "words with an even number of a given letter." In this paper, we handle density of group languages via ergodicity of skew products between the shift space and the recognizing group. We consider both the cases of shifts of finite type (with a suitable notion of irreducibility), and of minimal shifts. In the latter case, our main result is a closed formula for the density which holds whenever the skew product has minimal closed invariant subsets which are ergodic under the product of the original measure and the uniform probability measure on the group. The formula is derived in part from a characterization of minimal closed invariant subsets for skew products relying on notions of cocycles and coboundaries. In the case where the whole skew product itself is ergodic under the product measure, then the density is completely determined by the cardinality of the image of the language inside the recognizing group. We provide sufficient conditions for the skew product to have minimal closed invariant subsets that are ergodic under the product measure. Finally, we investigate the link between minimal closed invariant subsets, return words and bifix codes.
Subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [436]
标题:  Large scale paired antibody language models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17889
作者:  Henry Kenlay,  Frédéric A. Dreyer,  Aleksandr Kovaltsuk,  Dom Miketa,  Douglas Pires,  Charlotte M. Deane
备注:  14 pages, 2 figures, 6 tables, model weights available at this https URL
Abstract:Antibodies are proteins produced by the immune system that can identify and neutralise a wide variety of antigens with high specificity and affinity, and constitute the most successful class of biotherapeutics. With the advent of next-generation sequencing, billions of antibody sequences have been collected in recent years, though their application in the design of better therapeutics has been constrained by the sheer volume and complexity of the data. To address this challenge, we present IgBert and IgT5, the best performing antibody-specific language models developed to date which can consistently handle both paired and unpaired variable region sequences as input. These models are trained comprehensively using the more than two billion unpaired sequences and two million paired sequences of light and heavy chains present in the Observed Antibody Space dataset. We show that our models outperform existing antibody and protein language models on a diverse range of design and regression tasks relevant to antibody engineering. This advancement marks a significant leap forward in leveraging machine learning, large scale data sets and high-performance computing for enhancing antibody design for therapeutic development.
Subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [437]
标题:  Sample complexity of quantum hypothesis testing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17868
作者:  Hao-Chung Cheng,  Nilanjana Datta,  Nana Liu,  Theshani Nuradha,  Robert Salzmann,  Mark M. Wilde
备注:  38 pages, 1 figure, preliminary version; see independent and concurrent work of Pensia, Jog, Loh at arXiv:2403.16981
Abstract:Quantum hypothesis testing has been traditionally studied from the information-theoretic perspective, wherein one is interested in the optimal decay rate of error probabilities as a function of the number of samples of an unknown state. In this paper, we study the sample complexity of quantum hypothesis testing, wherein the goal is to determine the minimum number of samples needed to reach a desired error probability. By making use of the wealth of knowledge that already exists in the literature on quantum hypothesis testing, we characterize the sample complexity of binary quantum hypothesis testing in the symmetric and asymmetric settings, and we provide bounds on the sample complexity of multiple quantum hypothesis testing. In more detail, we prove that the sample complexity of symmetric binary quantum hypothesis testing depends logarithmically on the inverse error probability and inversely on the negative logarithm of the fidelity. As a counterpart of the quantum Stein's lemma, we also find that the sample complexity of asymmetric binary quantum hypothesis testing depends logarithmically on the inverse type~II error probability and inversely on the quantum relative entropy. Finally, we provide lower and upper bounds on the sample complexity of multiple quantum hypothesis testing, with it remaining an intriguing open question to improve these bounds.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistics Theory (math.ST)

**编号**: [438]
标题:  Synthesizing Soundscapes: Leveraging Text-to-Audio Models for  Environmental Sound Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17864
作者:  Francesca Ronchini,  Luca Comanducci,  Fabio Antonacci
备注:  Submitted to EUSIPCO 2024
Abstract:In the past few years, text-to-audio models have emerged as a significant advancement in automatic audio gener- ation. Although they represent impressive technological progress, the effectiveness of their use in the development of audio applications remains uncertain. This paper aims to investigate these aspects, specifically focusing on the task of classification of environmental sounds. This study analyzes the performance of two different environmental classification systems when data generated from text-to-audio models is used for training. Two cases are considered: a) when the training dataset is augmented by data coming from two different text-to-audio models; and b) when the training dataset consists solely of synthetic audio generated. In both cases, the performance of the classification task is tested on real data. Results indicate that text-to-audio models are effective for dataset augmentation, whereas the performance of the models drops when relying on only generated audio.
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Sound (cs.SD); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [439]
标题:  Multi Agent Pathfinding for Noise Restricted Hybrid Fuel Unmanned Aerial  Vehicles
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17849
作者:  Drew Scott,  Satyanarayana G. Manyam,  David W. Casbeer,  Manish Kumar,  Isaac E. Weintraub
备注:  6 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:Multi Agent Path Finding (MAPF) seeks the optimal set of paths for multiple agents from respective start to goal locations such that no paths conflict. We address the MAPF problem for a fleet of hybrid-fuel unmanned aerial vehicles which are subject to location-dependent noise restrictions. We solve this problem by searching a constraint tree for which the subproblem at each node is a set of shortest path problems subject to the noise and fuel constraints and conflict zone avoidance. A labeling algorithm is presented to solve this subproblem, including the conflict zones which are treated as dynamic obstacles. We present the experimental results of the algorithms for various graph sizes and number of agents.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [440]
标题:  Annotated Biomedical Video Generation using Denoising Diffusion  Probabilistic Models and Flow Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17808
作者:  Rüveyda Yilmaz,  Dennis Eschweiler,  Johannes Stegmaier
备注:  
Abstract:The segmentation and tracking of living cells play a vital role within the biomedical domain, particularly in cancer research, drug development, and developmental biology. These are usually tedious and time-consuming tasks that are traditionally done by biomedical experts. Recently, to automatize these processes, deep learning based segmentation and tracking methods have been proposed. These methods require large-scale datasets and their full potential is constrained by the scarcity of annotated data in the biomedical imaging domain. To address this limitation, we propose Biomedical Video Diffusion Model (BVDM), capable of generating realistic-looking synthetic microscopy videos. Trained only on a single real video, BVDM can generate videos of arbitrary length with pixel-level annotations that can be used for training data-hungry models. It is composed of a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) generating high-fidelity synthetic cell microscopy images and a flow prediction model (FPM) predicting the non-rigid transformation between consecutive video frames. During inference, initially, the DDPM imposes realistic cell textures on synthetic cell masks which are generated based on real data statistics. The flow prediction model predicts the flow field between consecutive masks and applies that to the DDPM output from the previous time frame to create the next one while keeping temporal consistency. BVDM outperforms state-of-the-art synthetic live cell microscopy video generation models. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a sufficiently large synthetic dataset enhances the performance of cell segmentation and tracking models compared to using a limited amount of available real data.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [441]
标题:  Fermihedral: On the Optimal Compilation for Fermion-to-Qubit Encoding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17794
作者:  Yuhao Liu,  Shize Che,  Junyu Zhou,  Yunong Shi,  Gushu Li
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces Fermihedral, a compiler framework focusing on discovering the optimal Fermion-to-qubit encoding for targeted Fermionic Hamiltonians. Fermion-to-qubit encoding is a crucial step in harnessing quantum computing for efficient simulation of Fermionic quantum systems. Utilizing Pauli algebra, Fermihedral redefines complex constraints and objectives of Fermion-to-qubit encoding into a Boolean Satisfiability problem which can then be solved with high-performance solvers. To accommodate larger-scale scenarios, this paper proposed two new strategies that yield approximate optimal solutions mitigating the overhead from the exponentially large number of clauses. Evaluation across diverse Fermionic systems highlights the superiority of Fermihedral, showcasing substantial reductions in implementation costs, gate counts, and circuit depth in the compiled circuits. Real-system experiments on IonQ's device affirm its effectiveness, notably enhancing simulation accuracy.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [442]
标题:  CT Synthesis with Conditional Diffusion Models for Abdominal Lymph Node  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17770
作者:  Yongrui Yu,  Hanyu Chen,  Zitian Zhang,  Qiong Xiao,  Wenhui Lei,  Linrui Dai,  Yu Fu,  Hui Tan,  Guan Wang,  Peng Gao,  Xiaofan Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Despite the significant success achieved by deep learning methods in medical image segmentation, researchers still struggle in the computer-aided diagnosis of abdominal lymph nodes due to the complex abdominal environment, small and indistinguishable lesions, and limited annotated data. To address these problems, we present a pipeline that integrates the conditional diffusion model for lymph node generation and the nnU-Net model for lymph node segmentation to improve the segmentation performance of abdominal lymph nodes through synthesizing a diversity of realistic abdominal lymph node data. We propose LN-DDPM, a conditional denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) for lymph node (LN) generation. LN-DDPM utilizes lymph node masks and anatomical structure masks as model conditions. These conditions work in two conditioning mechanisms: global structure conditioning and local detail conditioning, to distinguish between lymph nodes and their surroundings and better capture lymph node characteristics. The obtained paired abdominal lymph node images and masks are used for the downstream segmentation task. Experimental results on the abdominal lymph node datasets demonstrate that LN-DDPM outperforms other generative methods in the abdominal lymph node image synthesis and better assists the downstream abdominal lymph node segmentation task.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [443]
标题:  Asymptotic Bayes risk of semi-supervised learning with uncertain  labeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17767
作者:  Victor Leger,  Romain Couillet
备注:  
Abstract:This article considers a semi-supervised classification setting on a Gaussian mixture model, where the data is not labeled strictly as usual, but instead with uncertain labels. Our main aim is to compute the Bayes risk for this model. We compare the behavior of the Bayes risk and the best known algorithm for this model. This comparison eventually gives new insights over the algorithm.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [444]
标题:  Counting Stars is Constant-Degree Optimal For Detecting Any Planted  Subgraph
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17766
作者:  Xifan Yu,  Ilias Zadik,  Peiyuan Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:We study the computational limits of the following general hypothesis testing problem. Let H=H_n be an \emph{arbitrary} undirected graph on n vertices. We study the detection task between a ``null'' Erdős-Rényi random graph G(n,p) and a ``planted'' random graph which is the union of G(n,p) together with a random copy of H=H_n. Our notion of planted model is a generalization of a plethora of recently studied models initiated with the study of the planted clique model (Jerrum 1992), which corresponds to the special case where H is a k-clique and p=1/2. Over the last decade, several papers have studied the power of low-degree polynomials for limited choices of H's in the above task. In this work, we adopt a unifying perspective and characterize the power of \emph{constant degree} polynomials for the detection task, when \emph{H=H_n is any arbitrary graph} and for \emph{any p=\Omega(1).} Perhaps surprisingly, we prove that the optimal constant degree polynomial is always given by simply \emph{counting stars} in the input random graph. As a direct corollary, we conclude that the class of constant-degree polynomials is only able to ``sense'' the degree distribution of the planted graph H, and no other graph theoretic property of it.
Subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [445]
标题:  Paired Diffusion: Generation of related, synthetic PET-CT-Segmentation  scans using Linked Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17734
作者:  Rowan Bradbury,  Katherine A. Vallis,  Bartlomiej W. Papiez
备注:  to be published in IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging 2024
Abstract:The rapid advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in biomedical imaging and radiotherapy is hindered by the limited availability of large imaging data repositories. With recent research and improvements in denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM), high quality synthetic medical scans are now possible. Despite this, there is currently no way of generating multiple related images, such as a corresponding ground truth which can be used to train models, so synthetic scans are often manually annotated before use. This research introduces a novel architecture that is able to generate multiple, related PET-CT-tumour mask pairs using paired networks and conditional encoders. Our approach includes innovative, time step-controlled mechanisms and a `noise-seeding' strategy to improve DDPM sampling consistency. While our model requires a modified perceptual loss function to ensure accurate feature alignment we show generation of clearly aligned synthetic images and improvement in segmentation accuracy with generated images.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [446]
标题:  On Structural Non-commutativity in Affine Feedback of SISO Nonlinear  Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17730
作者:  Venkatesh G. S.
备注:  submitted to $26^{th}$ International Symposium on Mathematical Theory of Networks and Systems, 2024
Abstract:The affine feedback connection of SISO nonlinear systems modeled by Chen--Fliess series is shown to be a group action on the plant which is isomorphic to the semi-direct product of shuffle and additive group of non-commutative formal power series. The additive and multiplicative feedback loops in an affine feedback connection are thus proven to be structurally non-commutative. A flip in the order of these loops results in a net additive feedback loop.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [447]
标题:  Resolution Limit of Single-Photon LiDAR
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17719
作者:  Stanley H. Chan,  Hashan K. Weerasooriya,  Weijian Zhang,  Pamela Abshire,  Istvan Gyongy,  Robert K. Henderson
备注:  
Abstract:Single-photon Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) systems are often equipped with an array of detectors for improved spatial resolution and sensing speed. However, given a fixed amount of flux produced by the laser transmitter across the scene, the per-pixel Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) will decrease when more pixels are packed in a unit space. This presents a fundamental trade-off between the spatial resolution of the sensor array and the SNR received at each pixel. Theoretical characterization of this fundamental limit is explored. By deriving the photon arrival statistics and introducing a series of new approximation techniques, the Mean Squared Error (MSE) of the maximum-likelihood estimator of the time delay is derived. The theoretical predictions align well with simulations and real data.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [448]
标题:  Distance-Based Hierarchical Cutting of Complex Networks with  Non-Preferential and Preferential Choice of Seeds
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17713
作者:  Alexandre Benatti,  Luciano da F. Costa
备注:  15 pages and 9 figures
Abstract:Graphs and complex networks can be successively separated into connected components associated to respective seed nodes, therefore establishing a respective hierarchical organization. In the present work, we study the properties of the hierarchical structure implied by distance-based cutting of Erdős-Rényi, Barabási-Albert, and a specific geometric network. Two main situations are considered regarding the choice of the seeds: non-preferential and preferential to the respective node degree. Among the obtained findings, we have the tendency of geometrical networks yielding more balanced pairs of connected components along the network progressive separation, presenting little chaining effects, followed by the Erdős-Rényi and Barabási-Albert types of networks. The choice of seeds preferential to the node degree tended to enhance the balance of the connected components in the case of the geometrical networks.
Subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [449]
标题:  Rotate to Scan: UNet-like Mamba with Triplet SSM Module for Medical  Image Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17701
作者:  Hao Tang,  Lianglun Cheng,  Guoheng Huang,  Zhengguang Tan,  Junhao Lu,  Kaihong Wu
备注:  
Abstract:Image segmentation holds a vital position in the realms of diagnosis and treatment within the medical domain. Traditional convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and Transformer models have made significant advancements in this realm, but they still encounter challenges because of limited receptive field or high computing complexity. Recently, State Space Models (SSMs), particularly Mamba and its variants, have demonstrated notable performance in the field of vision. However, their feature extraction methods may not be sufficiently effective and retain some redundant structures, leaving room for parameter reduction. Motivated by previous spatial and channel attention methods, we propose Triplet Mamba-UNet. The method leverages residual VSS Blocks to extract intensive contextual features, while Triplet SSM is employed to fuse features across spatial and channel dimensions. We conducted experiments on ISIC17, ISIC18, CVC-300, CVC-ClinicDB, Kvasir-SEG, CVC-ColonDB, and Kvasir-Instrument datasets, demonstrating the superior segmentation performance of our proposed TM-UNet. Additionally, compared to the previous VM-UNet, our model achieves a one-third reduction in parameters.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [450]
标题:  Onboard deep lossless and near-lossless predictive coding of  hyperspectral images with line-based attention
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17677
作者:  Diego Valsesia,  Tiziano Bianchi,  Enrico Magli
备注:  
Abstract:Deep learning methods have traditionally been difficult to apply to compression of hyperspectral images onboard of spacecrafts, due to the large computational complexity needed to achieve adequate representational power, as well as the lack of suitable datasets for training and testing. In this paper, we depart from the traditional autoencoder approach and we design a predictive neural network, called LineRWKV, that works recursively line-by-line to limit memory consumption. In order to achieve that, we adopt a novel hybrid attentive-recursive operation that combines the representational advantages of Transformers with the linear complexity and recursive implementation of recurrent neural networks. The compression algorithm performs prediction of each pixel using LineRWKV, followed by entropy coding of the residual. Experiments on the HySpecNet-11k dataset and PRISMA images show that LineRWKV is the first deep-learning method to outperform CCSDS-123.0-B-2 at lossless and near-lossless compression. Promising throughput results are also evaluated on a 7W embedded system.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [451]
标题:  Analysis on reservoir activation with the nonlinearity harnessed from  solution-processed MoS2 devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17676
作者:  Songwei Liu,  Yang Liu,  Yingyi Wen,  Jingfang Pei,  Pengyu Liu,  Lekai Song,  Xiaoyue Fan,  Wenchen Yang,  Danmei Pan,  Teng Ma,  Yue Lin,  Gang Wang,  Guohua Hu
备注:  
Abstract:Reservoir computing is a recurrent neural network that has been applied across various domains in machine learning. The implementation of reservoir computing, however, often demands heavy computations for activating the reservoir. Configuring physical reservoir networks and harnessing the nonlinearity from the underlying devices for activation is an emergent solution to address the computational challenge. Herein, we analyze the feasibility of employing the nonlinearity from solution-processed molybdenum disulfide (MoS2) devices for reservoir activation. The devices, fabricated using liquid-phase exfoliated MoS2, exhibit a high-order nonlinearity achieved by Stark modulation of the MoS2 material. We demonstrate that this nonlinearity can be fitted and employed as the activation function to facilitate reservoir computing implementation. Notably, owing to the high-order nonlinearity, the network exhibits long-term synchronization and robust generalization abilities for approximating complex dynamical systems. Given the remarkable reservoir activation capability, coupled with the scalability of the device fabrication, our findings open the possibility for the physical realization of lightweight, efficient reservoir computing for, for instance, signal classification, motion tracking, and pattern recognition of complex time series as well as secure cryptography. As an example, we show the network can be appointed to generate chaotic random numbers for secure data encryption.
Subjects: Applied Physics (physics.app-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [452]
标题:  Chattering Phenomena in Time-Optimal Control for High-Order  Chain-of-Integrators Systems with Full State Constraints
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17675
作者:  Yunan Wang,  Chuxiong Hu,  Zeyang Li,  Yujie Lin,  Shize Lin,  Suqin He,  Yu Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:Time-optimal control for high-order chain-of-integrators systems with full state constraints and arbitrary given terminal states remains an open and challenging problem in optimal control theory domain. However, optimal control's behaviors in high-order problems lack of precision characterization, even where the existence of chattering phenomena remain unknown and overlooked. This paper establishes a theoretical framework of chattering phenomena in the problem, focusing on the uniqueness of state constraints inducing chattering, the upper bound of switching times in an unconstrained arc during chattering, and the convergence of states and costates to the chattering limit point. For the first time, this paper proves the existence of chattering phenomena in the problems. The chattering optimal control for 4th order problems with velocity constraints is precisely solved, providing an approach to plan strictly time-optimal snap-limited trajectories, while other cases of order $n\leq4$ are proved to not allow chattering. The conclusions correct the longstanding misconception in the industry regarding the time-optimality of S-shaped trajectories with minimal switching times.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [453]
标题:  Leveraging A Variety of Anchors in Cellular Network for Ubiquitous  Sensing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17652
作者:  Liang Liu,  Shuowen Zhang,  Shuguang Cui
备注:  to appear in IEEE Communications Magazine
Abstract:Integrated sensing and communication (ISAC) has recently attracted tremendous attention from both academia and industry, being envisioned as a key part of the standards for the sixth-generation (6G) cellular network. A key challenge of 6G-oriented ISAC lies in how to perform ubiquitous sensing based on the communication signals and devices. Previous works have made great progresses on studying the signal waveform design that leads to optimal communication-sensing performance tradeoff. In this article, we aim to focus on issues arising from the exploitation of the communication devices for sensing in 6G network. Particularly, we will discuss about how to leverage various nodes available in the cellular network as anchors to perform ubiquitous sensing. On one hand, the base stations (BSs) will be the most important anchors in the future 6G ISAC network, since they can generate/process radio signals with high range/angle resolutions, and their positions are precisely known. Correspondingly, we will first study the BS-based sensing technique. On the other hand, the BSs alone may not enable ubiquitous sensing, since they cannot cover all the places with strong line-of-sight (LOS) links. This motivates us to investigate the possibility of using other nodes that are with higher density in the network to act as the anchors. Along this line, we are interested in two types of new anchors - user equipments (UEs) and reconfigurable intelligent surfaces (RISs). This paper will shed light on the opportunities and challenges brought by UE-assisted sensing and RIS-assisted sensing. Our goal is to devise a novel 6G-oriented sensing architecture where BSs, UEs, and RISs can work together to provide ubiquitous sensing services.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [454]
标题:  Towards a Dutch hybrid quantum/HPC infrastructure
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17649
作者:  Olaf Schüsler,  Ariana Torres-Knoop,  Jaap Dijkshoorn,  Christiaan Hollemans,  Bas van der Vlies,  Richard Versluis
备注:  6 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Quantum Inspire has taken important steps to enable quantum applications by developing a setting that allows the execution of hybrid algorithms. Currently, the setting uses a classical server (HPC node) co-located with the quantum computer for the high frequency coupling needed by hybrid algorithms. A fast task manager (dispatcher) has been developed to orchestrate the interaction between the server and the quantum computer. Although successful, the setting imposes a specific hybrid job-structure. This is most likely always going to be the case and we are currently discussing how to make sure this does not hamper the uptake of the setting. Furthermore, first steps have been taken towards the integration with the Dutch National High-Performance Computing (HPC) Center, hosted by SURF. As a first approach we have setup a setting consisting of two SLURM clusters, one in the HPC (C1) and the second (C2) co-located with Quantum Inspire API. Jobs are submitted from C1 to C2. Quantum Inspire can then schedule with C2 the jobs to the quantum computer. With this setting, we enable control from both SURF and Quantum Inspire on the jobs being executed. By using C1 for the jobs submission we remove the accounting burden from Quantum Inspire. By having C2 co-located with Quantum Inspire API, we make the setting more resilient towards network failures. This setting can be extended for other HPC centers to submit jobs to Quantum Inspire backends.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [455]
标题:  High-Resolution Image Translation Model Based on Grayscale Redefinition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17639
作者:  Xixian Wu,  Dian Chao,  Yang Yang
备注:  
Abstract:Image-to-image translation is a technique that focuses on transferring images from one domain to another while maintaining the essential content representations. In recent years, image-to-image translation has gained significant attention and achieved remarkable advancements due to its diverse applications in computer vision and image processing tasks. In this work, we propose an innovative method for image translation between different domains. For high-resolution image translation tasks, we use a grayscale adjustment method to achieve pixel-level translation. For other tasks, we utilize the Pix2PixHD model with a coarse-to-fine generator, multi-scale discriminator, and improved loss to enhance the image translation performance. On the other hand, to tackle the issue of sparse training data, we adopt model weight initialization from other task to optimize the performance of the current task.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [456]
标题:  Grad-CAMO: Learning Interpretable Single-Cell Morphological Profiles  from 3D Cell Painting Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17615
作者:  Vivek Gopalakrishnan,  Jingzhe Ma,  Zhiyong Xie
备注:  
Abstract:Despite their black-box nature, deep learning models are extensively used in image-based drug discovery to extract feature vectors from single cells in microscopy images. To better understand how these networks perform representation learning, we employ visual explainability techniques (e.g., Grad-CAM). Our analyses reveal several mechanisms by which supervised models cheat, exploiting biologically irrelevant pixels when extracting morphological features from images, such as noise in the background. This raises doubts regarding the fidelity of learned single-cell representations and their relevance when investigating downstream biological questions. To address this misalignment between researcher expectations and machine behavior, we introduce Grad-CAMO, a novel single-cell interpretability score for supervised feature extractors. Grad-CAMO measures the proportion of a model's attention that is concentrated on the cell of interest versus the background. This metric can be assessed per-cell or averaged across a validation set, offering a tool to audit individual features vectors or guide the improved design of deep learning architectures. Importantly, Grad-CAMO seamlessly integrates into existing workflows, requiring no dataset or model modifications, and is compatible with both 2D and 3D Cell Painting data. Additional results are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)

**编号**: [457]
标题:  A Caro-Wei bound for induced linear forests in graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17568
作者:  Gwenaël Joret,  Robin Petit
备注:  
Abstract:A well-known result due to Caro (1979) and Wei (1981) states that every graph $G$ has an independent set of size at least $\sum_{v\in V(G)} \frac{1}{d(v) + 1}$, where $d(v)$ denotes the degree of vertex $v$. Alon, Kahn, and Seymour (1987) showed the following generalization: For every $k\geq 0$, every graph $G$ has a $k$-degenerate induced subgraph with at least $\sum_{v \in V(G)}\min\{1, \frac {k+1}{d(v)+1}\}$ vertices. In particular, for $k=1$, every graph $G$ with no isolated vertices has an induced forest with at least $\sum_{v\in V(G)} \frac{2}{d(v) + 1}$ vertices. Akbari, Amanihamedani, Mousavi, Nikpey, and Sheybani (2019) conjectured that, if $G$ has minimum degree at least $2$, then one can even find an induced linear forest of that order in $G$, that is, a forest where each component is a path. In this paper, we prove this conjecture and show a number of related results. In particular, if there is no restriction on the minimum degree of $G$, we show that there are infinitely many ``best possible'' functions $f$ such that $\sum_{v\in V(G)} f(d(v))$ is a lower bound on the maximum order of a linear forest in $G$, and we give a full characterization of all such functions $f$.
Subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [458]
标题:  Robust Stability for Multiagent Systems with Spatio-Temporally  Correlated Packet Loss
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17554
作者:  Christian Hespe,  Adwait Datar,  Herbert Werner
备注:  7 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
Abstract:A problem with considering correlations in the analysis of multiagent system with stochastic packet loss is that they induce dependencies between agents that are otherwise decoupled, preventing the application of decomposition methods required for efficient evaluation. To circumvent that issue, this paper is proposing an approach based on analysing sets of networks with independent communication links, only considering the correlations in an implicit fashion. Combining ideas from the robust stabilization of Markov jump linear systems with recently proposed techniques for analysing packet loss in multiagent systems, we obtain a linear matrix inequality based stability condition which is independent of the number of agents. The main result is that the set of stabilized probability distributions has non-empty interior such that small correlations cannot lead to instability, even though only distributions of independent links were analysed. Moreover, two examples are provided to demonstrate the applicability of the results to practically relevant scenarios.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [459]
标题:  Prediction-sharing During Training and Inference
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17515
作者:  Yotam Gafni,  Ronen Gradwohl,  Moshe Tennenholtz
备注:  
Abstract:Two firms are engaged in a competitive prediction task. Each firm has two sources of data -- labeled historical data and unlabeled inference-time data -- and uses the former to derive a prediction model, and the latter to make predictions on new instances. We study data-sharing contracts between the firms. The novelty of our study is to introduce and highlight the differences between contracts that share prediction models only, contracts to share inference-time predictions only, and contracts to share both. Our analysis proceeds on three levels. First, we develop a general Bayesian framework that facilitates our study. Second, we narrow our focus to two natural settings within this framework: (i) a setting in which the accuracy of each firm's prediction model is common knowledge, but the correlation between the respective models is unknown; and (ii) a setting in which two hypotheses exist regarding the optimal predictor, and one of the firms has a structural advantage in deducing it. Within these two settings we study optimal contract choice. More specifically, we find the individually rational and Pareto-optimal contracts for some notable cases, and describe specific settings where each of the different sharing contracts emerge as optimal. Finally, in the third level of our analysis we demonstrate the applicability of our concepts in a synthetic simulation using real loan data.
Subjects: Theoretical Economics (econ.TH); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [460]
标题:  Speaker Distance Estimation in Enclosures from Single-Channel Audio
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17514
作者:  Michael Neri,  Archontis Politis,  Daniel Krause,  Marco Carli,  Tuomas Virtanen
备注:  Accepted for publication in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing
Abstract:Distance estimation from audio plays a crucial role in various applications, such as acoustic scene analysis, sound source localization, and room modeling. Most studies predominantly center on employing a classification approach, where distances are discretized into distinct categories, enabling smoother model training and achieving higher accuracy but imposing restrictions on the precision of the obtained sound source position. Towards this direction, in this paper we propose a novel approach for continuous distance estimation from audio signals using a convolutional recurrent neural network with an attention module. The attention mechanism enables the model to focus on relevant temporal and spectral features, enhancing its ability to capture fine-grained distance-related information. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we conduct extensive experiments using audio recordings in controlled environments with three levels of realism (synthetic room impulse response, measured response with convolved speech, and real recordings) on four datasets (our synthetic dataset, QMULTIMIT, VoiceHome-2, and STARSS23). Experimental results show that the model achieves an absolute error of 0.11 meters in a noiseless synthetic scenario. Moreover, the results showed an absolute error of about 1.30 meters in the hybrid scenario. The algorithm's performance in the real scenario, where unpredictable environmental factors and noise are prevalent, yields an absolute error of approximately 0.50 meters. For reproducible research purposes we make model, code, and synthetic datasets available at this https URL.
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Sound (cs.SD)

**编号**: [461]
标题:  Geometric planted matchings beyond the Gaussian model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17469
作者:  Lucas da Rocha Schwengber,  Roberto Imbuzeiro Oliveira
备注:  36 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:We consider the problem of recovering an unknown matching between a set of $n$ randomly placed points in $\mathbb{R}^d$ and random perturbations of these points. This can be seen as a model for particle tracking and more generally, entity resolution. We use matchings in random geometric graphs to derive minimax lower bounds for this problem that hold under great generality. Using these results we show that for a broad class of distributions, the order of the number of mistakes made by an estimator that minimizes the sum of squared Euclidean distances is minimax optimal when $d$ is fixed and is optimal up to $n^{o(1)}$ factors when $d = o(\log n)$. In the high-dimensional regime we consider a setup where both initial positions and perturbations have independent sub-Gaussian coordinates. In this setup we give sufficient conditions under which the same estimator makes no mistakes with high probability. We prove an analogous result for an adapted version of this estimator that incorporates information on the covariance matrix of the perturbations.
Subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Databases (cs.DB); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [462]
标题:  Building Bridges across Spatial and Temporal Resolutions:  Reference-Based Super-Resolution via Change Priors and Conditional Diffusion  Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17460
作者:  Runmin Dong,  Shuai Yuan,  Bin Luo,  Mengxuan Chen,  Jinxiao Zhang,  Lixian Zhang,  Weijia Li,  Juepeng Zheng,  Haohuan Fu
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:Reference-based super-resolution (RefSR) has the potential to build bridges across spatial and temporal resolutions of remote sensing images. However, existing RefSR methods are limited by the faithfulness of content reconstruction and the effectiveness of texture transfer in large scaling factors. Conditional diffusion models have opened up new opportunities for generating realistic high-resolution images, but effectively utilizing reference images within these models remains an area for further exploration. Furthermore, content fidelity is difficult to guarantee in areas without relevant reference information. To solve these issues, we propose a change-aware diffusion model named Ref-Diff for RefSR, using the land cover change priors to guide the denoising process explicitly. Specifically, we inject the priors into the denoising model to improve the utilization of reference information in unchanged areas and regulate the reconstruction of semantically relevant content in changed areas. With this powerful guidance, we decouple the semantics-guided denoising and reference texture-guided denoising processes to improve the model performance. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method compared with state-of-the-art RefSR methods in both quantitative and qualitative evaluations. The code and data are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [463]
标题:  $(ω_1, ω_2)$-Temporal random hyperbolic graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17440
作者:  Sofoclis Zambirinis,  Fragkiskos Papadopoulos
备注:  
Abstract:We extend a recent model of temporal random hyperbolic graphs by allowing connections and disconnections to persist across network snapshots with different probabilities, $\omega_1$ and $\omega_2$. This extension, while conceptually simple, poses analytical challenges involving the Appell $F_1$ series. Despite these challenges, we are able to analyze key properties of the model, which include the distributions of contact and intercontact durations, as well as the expected time-aggregated degree. The incorporation of $\omega_1$ and $\omega_2$ enables more flexible tuning of the average contact and intercontact durations, and of the average time-aggregated degree, providing a finer control for exploring the effect of temporal network dynamics on epidemic processes. Overall, our results provide new insights into the analysis of temporal networks and contribute to a more general representation of real-world scenarios.
Subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [464]
标题:  Particle identification with machine learning from incomplete data in  the ALICE experiment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17436
作者:  Maja Karwowska,  Łukasz Graczykowski,  Kamil Deja,  Miłosz Kasak,  Małgorzata Janik (for the ALICE collaboration)
备注:  Proceedings of 3rd Artificial Intelligence for the Electron Ion Collider workshop -- AI4EIC2023, 28.11-1.12.2023. Prepared for submission to JINST
Abstract:The ALICE experiment at the LHC measures properties of the strongly interacting matter formed in ultrarelativistic heavy-ion collisions. Such studies require accurate particle identification (PID). ALICE provides PID information via several detectors for particles with momentum from about 100 MeV/c up to 20 GeV/c. Traditionally, particles are selected with rectangular cuts. Acmuch better performance can be achieved with machine learning (ML) methods. Our solution uses multiple neural networks (NN) serving as binary classifiers. Moreover, we extended our particle classifier with Feature Set Embedding and attention in order to train on data with incomplete samples. We also present the integration of the ML project with the ALICE analysis software, and we discuss domain adaptation, the ML technique needed to transfer the knowledge between simulated and real experimental data.
Subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [465]
标题:  Integrating Mamba Sequence Model and Hierarchical Upsampling Network for  Accurate Semantic Segmentation of Multiple Sclerosis Legion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17432
作者:  Kazi Shahriar Sanjid,  Md. Tanzim Hossain,  Md. Shakib Shahariar Junayed,  Dr. Mohammad Monir Uddin
备注:  13 pages
Abstract:Integrating components from convolutional neural networks and state space models in medical image segmentation presents a compelling approach to enhance accuracy and efficiency. We introduce Mamba HUNet, a novel architecture tailored for robust and efficient segmentation tasks. Leveraging strengths from Mamba UNet and the lighter version of Hierarchical Upsampling Network (HUNet), Mamba HUNet combines convolutional neural networks local feature extraction power with state space models long range dependency modeling capabilities. We first converted HUNet into a lighter version, maintaining performance parity and then integrated this lighter HUNet into Mamba HUNet, further enhancing its efficiency. The architecture partitions input grayscale images into patches, transforming them into 1D sequences for processing efficiency akin to Vision Transformers and Mamba models. Through Visual State Space blocks and patch merging layers, hierarchical features are extracted while preserving spatial information. Experimental results on publicly available Magnetic Resonance Imaging scans, notably in Multiple Sclerosis lesion segmentation, demonstrate Mamba HUNet's effectiveness across diverse segmentation tasks. The model's robustness and flexibility underscore its potential in handling complex anatomical structures. These findings establish Mamba HUNet as a promising solution in advancing medical image segmentation, with implications for improving clinical decision making processes.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [466]
标题:  Infrastructure-less Localization from Indoor Environmental Sounds Based  on Spectral Decomposition and Spatial Likelihood Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17402
作者:  Satoki Ogiso,  Yoshiaki Bando,  Takeshi Kurata,  Takashi Okuma
备注:  6 pages, 6 figures, accepted to IEEE/SICE SII 2023
Abstract:Human and/or asset tracking using an attached sensor units helps understand their activities. Most common indoor localization methods for human tracking technologies require expensive infrastructures, deployment and maintenance. To overcome this problem, environmental sounds have been used for infrastructure-free localization. While they achieve room-level classification, they suffer from two problems: low signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) condition and non-uniqueness of sound over the coverage area. A microphone localization method was proposed using supervised spectral decomposition and spatial likelihood to solve these problems. The proposed method was evaluated with actual recordings in an experimental room with a size of 12 x 30 m. The results showed that the proposed method with supervised NMF was robust under low-SNR condition compared to a simple feature (mel frequency cepstrum coefficient: MFCC). Additionally, the proposed method could be easily integrated with prior distribution, which is available from other Bayesian localizations. The proposed method can be used to evaluate the spatial likelihood from environmental sounds.
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Sound (cs.SD)

**编号**: [467]
标题:  A Moreau Envelope Approach for LQR Meta-Policy Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17364
作者:  Ashwin Aravind,  Mohammad Taha Toghani,  César A. Uribe
备注:  8 pages
Abstract:We study the problem of policy estimation for the Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) in discrete-time linear time-invariant uncertain dynamical systems. We propose a Moreau Envelope-based surrogate LQR cost, built from a finite set of realizations of the uncertain system, to define a meta-policy efficiently adjustable to new realizations. Moreover, we design an algorithm to find an approximate first-order stationary point of the meta-LQR cost function. Numerical results show that the proposed approach outperforms naive averaging of controllers on new realizations of the linear system. We also provide empirical evidence that our method has better sample complexity than Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (MAML) approaches.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [468]
标题:  Uniform Preorders and Partial Combinatory Algebras
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17340
作者:  Jonas Frey
备注:  21 pages
Abstract:Uniform preorders are a class of combinatory representations of Set-indexed preorders that generalize Pieter Hofstra's basic relational objects. An indexed preorder is representable by a uniform preorder if and only if it has as generic predicate. We study the $\exists$-completion of indexed preorders on the level of uniform preorders, and identify a combinatory condition (called 'relational completeness') which characterizes those uniform preorders with finite meets whose $\exists$-completions are triposes. The class of triposes obtained this way contains relative realizability triposes, for which we derive a characterization as a fibrational analogue of the characterization of realizability toposes given in earlier work. Besides relative partial combinatory algebras, the class of relationally complete uniform preorders contains filtered ordered partial combinatory algebras, and it is unclear if there are any others.
Subjects: Logic (math.LO); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)

**编号**: [469]
标题:  Labeling subtypes in a Parkinson's Cohort using Multifeatures in MRI -  Integrating Grey and White Matter Information
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17332
作者:  Tanmayee Samantaray,  Jitender Saini,  Pramod Kumar Pal,  Bithiah Grace Jaganathan,  Vijaya V Saradhi,  Gupta CN
备注:  31 pages, 10 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:Thresholding of networks has long posed a challenge in brain connectivity analysis. Weighted networks are typically binarized using threshold measures to facilitate network analysis. Previous studies on MRI-based brain networks have predominantly utilized density or sparsity-based thresholding techniques, optimized within specific ranges derived from network metrics such as path length, clustering coefficient, and small-world index. Thus, determination of a single threshold value for facilitating comparative analysis of networks remains elusive. To address this, our study introduces Mutual K-Nearest Neighbor (MKNN)-based thresholding for brain network analysis. Here, nearest neighbor selection is based on the highest correlation between features of brain regions. Construction of brain networks was accomplished by computing Pearson correlations between grey matter volume and white matter volume for each pair of brain regions. Structural MRI data from 180 Parkinsons patients and 70 controls from the NIMHANS, India were analyzed. Subtypes within Parkinsons disease were identified based on grey and white matter volume atrophy using source-based morphometric decomposition. The loading coefficients were correlated with clinical features to discern clinical relationship with the deciphered subtypes. Our data-mining approach revealed: Subtype A (N = 51, intermediate type), Subtype B (N = 57, mild-severe type with mild motor symptoms), and Subtype AB (N = 36, most-severe type with predominance in motor impairment). Subtype-specific weighted matrices were binarized using MKNN-based thresholding for brain network analysis. Permutation tests on network metrics of resulting bipartite graphs demonstrated significant group differences in betweenness centrality and participation coefficient. The identified hubs were specific to each subtype, with some hubs conserved across different subtypes.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)

**编号**: [470]
标题:  So Long Sucker: Endgame Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17302
作者:  Jean-Lou De Carufel,  Marie Rose Jerade
备注:  49 pages
Abstract:So Long Sucker is a strategy board game requiring 4 players, each with $c$ chips of their designated color, and a board made of $k$ empty piles. With a clear set-up come intricate rules, such as: players taking turns but not in a fixed order, agreements between some players being made and broken at any time, and a player winning the game even without any chips in hand. One of the main points of interest in studying this game, is finding when a player has a winning strategy. The game begins with four players that get eliminated successively until the winner is left. To study winning strategies, it is of interest to look at endgame situations. We present the following game set-up: there are two players left in the game, Blue and Red, and only their respective chip colors. In this paper, we characterize Blue's winning situations and strategies through inductive reasoning.
Subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [471]
标题:  Tracing and segmentation of molecular patterns in 3-dimensional  cryo-et/em density maps through algorithmic image processing and deep  learning-based techniques
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17293
作者:  Salim Sazzed
备注:  
Abstract:Understanding the structures of biological macromolecules is highly important as they are closely associated with cellular functionalities. Comprehending the precise organization actin filaments is crucial because they form the dynamic cytoskeleton, which offers structural support to cells and connects the cell's interior with its surroundings. However, determining the precise organization of actin filaments is challenging due to the poor quality of cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET) images, which suffer from low signal-to-noise (SNR) ratios and the presence of missing wedge, as well as diverse shape characteristics of actin filaments. To address these formidable challenges, the primary component of this dissertation focuses on developing sophisticated computational techniques for tracing actin filaments. In particular, three novel methodologies have been developed: i) BundleTrac, for tracing bundle-like actin filaments found in Stereocilium, ii) Spaghetti Tracer, for tracing filaments that move individually with loosely cohesive movements, and iii) Struwwel Tracer, for tracing randomly orientated actin filaments in the actin network. The second component of the dissertation introduces a convolutional neural network (CNN) based segmentation model to determine the location of protein secondary structures, such as helices and beta-sheets, in medium-resolution (5-10 Angstrom) 3-dimensional cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) images. This methodology later evolved into a tool named DeepSSETracer. The final component of the dissertation presents a novel algorithm, cylindrical fit measure, to estimate image structure match at helix regions in medium-resolution cryo-EM images. Overall, my dissertation has made significant contributions to addressing critical research challenges in structural biology by introducing various computational methods and tools.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)

**编号**: [472]
标题:  An Analysis of Switchback Designs in Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17285
作者:  Qianglin Wen,  Chengchun Shi,  Ying Yang,  Niansheng Tang,  Hongtu Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:This paper offers a detailed investigation of switchback designs in A/B testing, which alternate between baseline and new policies over time. Our aim is to thoroughly evaluate the effects of these designs on the accuracy of their resulting average treatment effect (ATE) estimators. We propose a novel "weak signal analysis" framework, which substantially simplifies the calculations of the mean squared errors (MSEs) of these ATEs in Markov decision process environments. Our findings suggest that (i) when the majority of reward errors are positively correlated, the switchback design is more efficient than the alternating-day design which switches policies in a daily basis. Additionally, increasing the frequency of policy switches tends to reduce the MSE of the ATE estimator. (ii) When the errors are uncorrelated, however, all these designs become asymptotically equivalent. (iii) In cases where the majority of errors are negative correlated, the alternating-day design becomes the optimal choice. These insights are crucial, offering guidelines for practitioners on designing experiments in A/B testing. Our analysis accommodates a variety of policy value estimators, including model-based estimators, least squares temporal difference learning estimators, and double reinforcement learning estimators, thereby offering a comprehensive understanding of optimal design strategies for policy evaluation in reinforcement learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [473]
标题:  Decoding the visual attention of pathologists to reveal their level of  expertise
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17255
作者:  Souradeep Chakraborty,  Dana Perez,  Paul Friedman,  Natallia Sheuka,  Constantin Friedman,  Oksana Yaskiv,  Rajarsi Gupta,  Gregory J. Zelinsky,  Joel H. Saltz,  Dimitris Samaras
备注:  
Abstract:We present a method for classifying the expertise of a pathologist based on how they allocated their attention during a cancer reading. We engage this decoding task by developing a novel method for predicting the attention of pathologists as they read whole-slide Images (WSIs) of prostate and make cancer grade classifications. Our ground truth measure of a pathologists' attention is the x, y and z (magnification) movement of their viewport as they navigated through WSIs during readings, and to date we have the attention behavior of 43 pathologists reading 123 WSIs. These data revealed that specialists have higher agreement in both their attention and cancer grades compared to general pathologists and residents, suggesting that sufficient information may exist in their attention behavior to classify their expertise level. To attempt this, we trained a transformer-based model to predict the visual attention heatmaps of resident, general, and specialist (GU) pathologists during Gleason grading. Based solely on a pathologist's attention during a reading, our model was able to predict their level of expertise with 75.3%, 56.1%, and 77.2% accuracy, respectively, better than chance and baseline models. Our model therefore enables a pathologist's expertise level to be easily and objectively evaluated, important for pathology training and competency assessment. Tools developed from our model could also be used to help pathology trainees learn how to read WSIs like an expert.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [474]
标题:  Machine learning for moduli space of genus two curves and an application  to post-quantum cryptography
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17250
作者:  Elira Shaska,  Tony Shaska
备注:  This is a short summary of extensive computations done in the moduli space of genus 2 curves with focus on curves with (n,n)-split Jacobians
Abstract:We use machine learning to study the locus ${\mathcal L}_n$ of genus two curves with $(n, n)$-split Jacobian. More precisely we design a transformer model which given values for the Igusa invariants determines if the corresponding genus two curve is in the locus ${\mathcal L}_n$, for $n=2, 3, 5, 7$. Such curves are important in isogeny based cryptography. During this study we discover that there are no rational points ${\mathfrak p} \in {\mathcal L}_n$ with weighted moduli height $\leq 2$ in any of ${\mathcal L}_2$, ${\mathcal L}_3$, and ${\mathcal L}_5$. This extends on previous work of the authors to use machine learning methods to study the moduli space of genus 2 algebraic curves.
Subjects: Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [475]
标题:  Physics-compliant diagonal representation of beyond-diagonal RIS
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17222
作者:  Philipp del Hougne
备注:  5 pages, 2 figures, submitted to an IEEE Conference
Abstract:Physics-compliant models of RIS-parametrized channels assign a load-terminated port to each RIS element. For conventional diagonal RIS (D-RIS), each auxiliary port is terminated by its own independent and individually tunable load (i.e., independent of the other auxiliary ports). For beyond-diagonal RIS (BD-RIS), the auxiliary ports are terminated by a tunable load circuit which couples the auxiliary ports to each other. Here, we point out that a physics-compliant model of the load circuit of a BD-RIS takes the same form as a physics-compliant model of a D-RIS-parametrized radio environment: a multi-port network with a subset of ports terminated by individually tunable loads (independent of each other). Consequently, we recognize that a BD-RIS-parametrized radio environment can be understood as a multi-port cascade network (i.e., the cascade of radio environment with load circuit) terminated by individually tunable loads (independent of each other). Hence, the BD-RIS problem can be mapped into the original D-RIS problem by replacing the radio environment with the cascade of radio environment and load circuit. The insight that BD-RIS can be physics-compliantly analyzed with the conventional D-RIS formalism implies that (i) the same optimization protocols as for D-RIS can be used for the BD-RIS case, and (ii) it is unclear if existing comparisons between BD-RIS and D-RIS are fair because for a fixed number of RIS elements, a BD-RIS has usually more tunable lumped elements.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [476]
标题:  Constant-selection evolutionary dynamics on weighted networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17208
作者:  Jnanajyoti Bhaumik,  Naoki Masuda
备注:  
Abstract:The population structure often impacts evolutionary dynamics. In constant-selection evolutionary dynamics between two types, amplifiers of selection are networks that promote the fitter mutant to take over the entire population, and suppressors of selection do the opposite. It has been shown that most undirected and unweighted networks are amplifiers of selection under a common updating rule and initial condition. Here, we extensively investigate how edge weights influence selection on undirected networks. We show that random edge weights make small networks less amplifying than the corresponding unweighted networks in a majority of cases and also make them suppressors of selection (i.e., less amplifying than the complete graph, or equivalently, the Moran process) in many cases. Qualitatively, the same result holds true for larger empirical networks. These results suggest that amplifiers of selection are not as common for weighted networks as for unweighted counterparts.
Subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Probability (math.PR); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)

**编号**: [477]
标题:  Robust Finite-time Stabilization of Linear Systems with Limited State  Quantization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17184
作者:  Yu Zhou,  Andrey Polyakov,  Gang Zheng
备注:  
Abstract:This paper investigates the robust asymptotic stabilization of a linear time-invariant (LTI) system by a static feedback with a static state quantization. It is shown that the controllable LTI system can be stabilized to zero in a finite time by means of a nonlinear feedback with a quantizer having a limited (finite) number of values (quantization seeds) even when all parameters of the controller and the quantizer are time-invariant. The control design is based on generalized homogeneity. A homogeneous spherical quantizer is introduced. The static homogeneous feedback is shown to be local (or global) finite-time stabilizer for the linear system (dependently of the system matrix). The tuning rules for both the quantizer and the feedback law are obtained in the form of Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMIs). The closed-loop system is proven to be robust with respect to some bounded matched and vanishing mismatched perturbations. Theoretical results are supported by numerical simulations. \
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [478]
标题:  On the Intersection of Signal Processing and Machine Learning: A Use  Case-Driven Analysis Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17181
作者:  Sulaiman Aburakhia,  Abdallah Shami,  George K. Karagiannidis
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in sensing, measurement, and computing technologies have significantly expanded the potential for signal-based applications, leveraging the synergy between signal processing and Machine Learning (ML) to improve both performance and reliability. This fusion represents a critical point in the evolution of signal-based systems, highlighting the need to bridge the existing knowledge gap between these two interdisciplinary fields. Despite many attempts in the existing literature to bridge this gap, most are limited to specific applications and focus mainly on feature extraction, often assuming extensive prior knowledge in signal processing. This assumption creates a significant obstacle for a wide range of readers. To address these challenges, this paper takes an integrated article approach. It begins with a detailed tutorial on the fundamentals of signal processing, providing the reader with the necessary background knowledge. Following this, it explores the key stages of a standard signal processing-based ML pipeline, offering an in-depth review of feature extraction techniques, their inherent challenges, and solutions. Differing from existing literature, this work offers an application-independent review and introduces a novel classification taxonomy for feature extraction techniques. Furthermore, it aims at linking theoretical concepts with practical applications, and demonstrates this through two specific use cases: a spectral-based method for condition monitoring of rolling bearings and a wavelet energy analysis for epilepsy detection using EEG signals. In addition to theoretical contributions, this work promotes a collaborative research culture by providing a public repository of relevant Python and MATLAB signal processing codes. This effort is intended to support collaborative research efforts and ensure the reproducibility of the results presented.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [479]
标题:  Brain Stroke Segmentation Using Deep Learning Models: A Comparative  Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17177
作者:  Ahmed Soliman,  Yousif Yousif,  Ahmed Ibrahim,  Yalda Zafari-Ghadim,  Essam A. Rashed,  Mohamed Mabrok
备注:  
Abstract:Stroke segmentation plays a crucial role in the diagnosis and treatment of stroke patients by providing spatial information about affected brain regions and the extent of damage. Segmenting stroke lesions accurately is a challenging task, given that conventional manual techniques are time consuming and prone to errors. Recently, advanced deep models have been introduced for general medical image segmentation, demonstrating promising results that surpass many state of the art networks when evaluated on specific datasets. With the advent of the vision Transformers, several models have been introduced based on them, while others have aimed to design better modules based on traditional convolutional layers to extract long-range dependencies like Transformers. The question of whether such high-level designs are necessary for all segmentation cases to achieve the best results remains unanswered. In this study, we selected four types of deep models that were recently proposed and evaluated their performance for stroke segmentation: a pure Transformer-based architecture (DAE-Former), two advanced CNN-based models (LKA and DLKA) with attention mechanisms in their design, an advanced hybrid model that incorporates CNNs with Transformers (FCT), and the well- known self-adaptive nnUNet framework with its configuration based on given data. We examined their performance on two publicly available datasets, and found that the nnUNet achieved the best results with the simplest design among all. Revealing the robustness issue of Transformers to such variabilities serves as a potential reason for their weaker performance. Furthermore, nnUNet's success underscores the significant impact of preprocessing and postprocessing techniques in enhancing segmentation results, surpassing the focus solely on architectural designs
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [480]
标题:  Output-feedback Synthesis Orbit Geometry: Quotient Manifolds and LQG  Direct Policy Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17157
作者:  Spencer Kraisler,  Mehran Mesbahi
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we consider direct policy optimization for the linear-quadratic Gaussian (LQG) setting. Over the past few years, it has been recognized that the landscape of stabilizing output-feedback controllers of relevance to LQG has an intricate geometry, particularly as it pertains to the existence of spurious stationary points. In order to address such challenges, in this paper, we first adopt a Riemannian metric for the space of stabilizing full-order minimal output-feedback controllers. We then proceed to prove that the orbit of such controllers modulo coordinate transformation admits a Riemannian quotient manifold structure. This geometric structure is then used to develop a Riemannian gradient descent for the direct LQG policy optimization. We prove a local convergence guarantee with linear rate and show the proposed approach exhibits significantly faster and more robust numerical performance as compared with ordinary gradient descent for LQG. Subsequently, we provide reasons for this observed behavior; in particular, we argue that optimizing over the orbit space of controllers is the right theoretical and computational setup for direct LQG policy optimization.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [481]
标题:  Approximation with Random Shallow ReLU Networks with Applications to  Model Reference Adaptive Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17142
作者:  Andrew Lamperski,  Tyler Lekang
备注:  Under Review for Conference on Decision and Control
Abstract:Neural networks are regularly employed in adaptive control of nonlinear systems and related methods o reinforcement learning. A common architecture uses a neural network with a single hidden layer (i.e. a shallow network), in which the weights and biases are fixed in advance and only the output layer is trained. While classical results show that there exist neural networks of this type that can approximate arbitrary continuous functions over bounded regions, they are non-constructive, and the networks used in practice have no approximation guarantees. Thus, the approximation properties required for control with neural networks are assumed, rather than proved. In this paper, we aim to fill this gap by showing that for sufficiently smooth functions, ReLU networks with randomly generated weights and biases achieve $L_{\infty}$ error of $O(m^{-1/2})$ with high probability, where $m$ is the number of neurons. It suffices to generate the weights uniformly over a sphere and the biases uniformly over an interval. We show how the result can be used to get approximations of required accuracy in a model reference adaptive control application.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [482]
标题:  Deep learning-based predictive modelling of transonic flow over an  aerofoil
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17131
作者:  Li-Wei Chen,  Nils Thuerey
备注:  
Abstract:Effectively predicting transonic unsteady flow over an aerofoil poses inherent challenges. In this study, we harness the power of deep neural network (DNN) models using the attention U-Net architecture. Through efficient training of these models, we achieve the capability to capture the complexities of transonic and unsteady flow dynamics at high resolution, even when faced with previously unseen conditions. We demonstrate that by leveraging the differentiability inherent in neural network representations, our approach provides a framework for assessing fundamental physical properties via global instability analysis. This integration bridges deep neural network models and traditional modal analysis, offering valuable insights into transonic flow dynamics and enhancing the interpretability of neural network models in flowfield diagnostics.
Subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [483]
标题:  A Study in Dataset Pruning for Image Super-Resolution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17083
作者:  Brian B. Moser,  Federico Raue,  Andreas Dengel
备注:  
Abstract:In image Super-Resolution (SR), relying on large datasets for training is a double-edged sword. While offering rich training material, they also demand substantial computational and storage resources. In this work, we analyze dataset pruning as a solution to these challenges. We introduce a novel approach that reduces a dataset to a core-set of training samples, selected based on their loss values as determined by a simple pre-trained SR model. By focusing the training on just 50% of the original dataset, specifically on the samples characterized by the highest loss values, we achieve results comparable to or even surpassing those obtained from training on the entire dataset. Interestingly, our analysis reveals that the top 5% of samples with the highest loss values negatively affect the training process. Excluding these samples and adjusting the selection to favor easier samples further enhances training outcomes. Our work opens new perspectives to the untapped potential of dataset pruning in image SR. It suggests that careful selection of training data based on loss-value metrics can lead to better SR models, challenging the conventional wisdom that more data inevitably leads to better performance.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [484]
标题:  Provably Robust Score-Based Diffusion Posterior Sampling for  Plug-and-Play Image Reconstruction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17042
作者:  Xingyu Xu,  Yuejie Chi
备注:  
Abstract:In a great number of tasks in science and engineering, the goal is to infer an unknown image from a small number of measurements collected from a known forward model describing certain sensing or imaging modality. Due to resource constraints, this task is often extremely ill-posed, which necessitates the adoption of expressive prior information to regularize the solution space. Score-based diffusion models, due to its impressive empirical success, have emerged as an appealing candidate of an expressive prior in image reconstruction. In order to accommodate diverse tasks at once, it is of great interest to develop efficient, consistent and robust algorithms that incorporate {\em unconditional} score functions of an image prior distribution in conjunction with flexible choices of forward models. This work develops an algorithmic framework for employing score-based diffusion models as an expressive data prior in general nonlinear inverse problems. Motivated by the plug-and-play framework in the imaging community, we introduce a diffusion plug-and-play method (\textsf{DPnP}) that alternatively calls two samplers, a proximal consistency sampler based solely on the likelihood function of the forward model, and a denoising diffusion sampler based solely on the score functions of the image prior. The key insight is that denoising under white Gaussian noise can be solved {\em rigorously} via both stochastic (i.e., DDPM-type) and deterministic (i.e., DDIM-type) samplers using the unconditional score functions. We establish both asymptotic and non-asymptotic performance guarantees of \textsf{DPnP}, and provide numerical experiments to illustrate its promise in solving both linear and nonlinear image reconstruction tasks. To the best of our knowledge, \textsf{DPnP} is the first provably-robust posterior sampling method for nonlinear inverse problems using unconditional diffusion priors.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [485]
标题:  Sumsets in the Hypercube
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.16589
作者:  Noga Alon,  Or Zamir
备注:  
Abstract:A subset $S$ of the Boolean hypercube $\mathbb{F}_2^n$ is a sumset if $S = A+A = \{a + b \ | \ a, b\in A\}$ for some $A \subseteq \mathbb{F}_2^n$. We prove that the number of sumsets in $\mathbb{F}_2^n$ is asymptotically $(2^n-1)2^{2^{n-1}}$. Furthermore, we show that the family of sumsets in $\mathbb{F}_2^n$ is almost identical to the family of all subsets of $\mathbb{F}_2^n$ that contain a complete linear subspace of co-dimension $1$.
Subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

