**编号**: [1]
标题:  P-MapNet: Far-seeing Map Generator Enhanced by both SDMap and HDMap  Priors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10521
作者:  Zhou Jiang,  Zhenxin Zhu,  Pengfei Li,  Huan-ang Gao,  Tianyuan Yuan,  Yongliang Shi,  Hang Zhao,  Hao Zhao
备注:  
Abstract:Autonomous vehicles are gradually entering city roads today, with the help of high-definition maps (HDMaps). However, the reliance on HDMaps prevents autonomous vehicles from stepping into regions without this expensive digital infrastructure. This fact drives many researchers to study online HDMap generation algorithms, but the performance of these algorithms at far regions is still unsatisfying. We present P-MapNet, in which the letter P highlights the fact that we focus on incorporating map priors to improve model performance. Specifically, we exploit priors in both SDMap and HDMap. On one hand, we extract weakly aligned SDMap from OpenStreetMap, and encode it as an additional conditioning branch. Despite the misalignment challenge, our attention-based architecture adaptively attends to relevant SDMap skeletons and significantly improves performance. On the other hand, we exploit a masked autoencoder to capture the prior distribution of HDMap, which can serve as a refinement module to mitigate occlusions and artifacts. We benchmark on the nuScenes and Argoverse2 datasets. Through comprehensive experiments, we show that: (1) our SDMap prior can improve online map generation performance, using both rasterized (by up to $+18.73$ $\rm mIoU$) and vectorized (by up to $+8.50$ $\rm mAP$) output representations. (2) our HDMap prior can improve map perceptual metrics by up to $6.34\%$. (3) P-MapNet can be switched into different inference modes that covers different regions of the accuracy-efficiency trade-off landscape. (4) P-MapNet is a far-seeing solution that brings larger improvements on longer ranges. Codes and models are publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [2]
标题:  Strong and Controllable Blind Image Decomposition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10520
作者:  Zeyu Zhang,  Junlin Han,  Chenhui Gou,  Hongdong Li,  Liang Zheng
备注:  Code: this https URL
Abstract:Blind image decomposition aims to decompose all components present in an image, typically used to restore a multi-degraded input image. While fully recovering the clean image is appealing, in some scenarios, users might want to retain certain degradations, such as watermarks, for copyright protection. To address this need, we add controllability to the blind image decomposition process, allowing users to enter which types of degradation to remove or retain. We design an architecture named controllable blind image decomposition network. Inserted in the middle of U-Net structure, our method first decomposes the input feature maps and then recombines them according to user instructions. Advantageously, this functionality is implemented at minimal computational cost: decomposition and recombination are all parameter-free. Experimentally, our system excels in blind image decomposition tasks and can outputs partially or fully restored images that well reflect user intentions. Furthermore, we evaluate and configure different options for the network structure and loss functions. This, combined with the proposed decomposition-and-recombination method, yields an efficient and competitive system for blind image decomposition, compared with current state-of-the-art methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [3]
标题:  Frozen Feature Augmentation for Few-Shot Image Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10519
作者:  Andreas Bär,  Neil Houlsby,  Mostafa Dehghani,  Manoj Kumar
备注:  CVPR 2024 (18 pages, main paper + supplementary material)
Abstract:Training a linear classifier or lightweight model on top of pretrained vision model outputs, so-called 'frozen features', leads to impressive performance on a number of downstream few-shot tasks. Currently, frozen features are not modified during training. On the other hand, when networks are trained directly on images, data augmentation is a standard recipe that improves performance with no substantial overhead. In this paper, we conduct an extensive pilot study on few-shot image classification that explores applying data augmentations in the frozen feature space, dubbed 'frozen feature augmentation (FroFA)', covering twenty augmentations in total. Our study demonstrates that adopting a deceptively simple pointwise FroFA, such as brightness, can improve few-shot performance consistently across three network architectures, three large pretraining datasets, and eight transfer datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [4]
标题:  Lodge: A Coarse to Fine Diffusion Network for Long Dance Generation  Guided by the Characteristic Dance Primitives
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10518
作者:  Ronghui Li,  YuXiang Zhang,  Yachao Zhang,  Hongwen Zhang,  Jie Guo,  Yan Zhang,  Yebin Liu,  Xiu Li
备注:  
Abstract:We propose Lodge, a network capable of generating extremely long dance sequences conditioned on given music. We design Lodge as a two-stage coarse to fine diffusion architecture, and propose the characteristic dance primitives that possess significant expressiveness as intermediate representations between two diffusion models. The first stage is global diffusion, which focuses on comprehending the coarse-level music-dance correlation and production characteristic dance primitives. In contrast, the second-stage is the local diffusion, which parallelly generates detailed motion sequences under the guidance of the dance primitives and choreographic rules. In addition, we propose a Foot Refine Block to optimize the contact between the feet and the ground, enhancing the physical realism of the motion. Our approach can parallelly generate dance sequences of extremely long length, striking a balance between global choreographic patterns and local motion quality and expressiveness. Extensive experiments validate the efficacy of our method.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [5]
标题:  VideoAgent: Long-form Video Understanding with Large Language Model as  Agent
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10517
作者:  Xiaohan Wang,  Yuhui Zhang,  Orr Zohar,  Serena Yeung-Levy
备注:  
Abstract:Long-form video understanding represents a significant challenge within computer vision, demanding a model capable of reasoning over long multi-modal sequences. Motivated by the human cognitive process for long-form video understanding, we emphasize interactive reasoning and planning over the ability to process lengthy visual inputs. We introduce a novel agent-based system, VideoAgent, that employs a large language model as a central agent to iteratively identify and compile crucial information to answer a question, with vision-language foundation models serving as tools to translate and retrieve visual information. Evaluated on the challenging EgoSchema and NExT-QA benchmarks, VideoAgent achieves 54.1% and 71.3% zero-shot accuracy with only 8.4 and 8.2 frames used on average. These results demonstrate superior effectiveness and efficiency of our method over the current state-of-the-art methods, highlighting the potential of agent-based approaches in advancing long-form video understanding.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [6]
标题:  FeatUp: A Model-Agnostic Framework for Features at Any Resolution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10516
作者:  Stephanie Fu,  Mark Hamilton,  Laura Brandt,  Axel Feldman,  Zhoutong Zhang,  William T. Freeman
备注:  Accepted to the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) 2024
Abstract:Deep features are a cornerstone of computer vision research, capturing image semantics and enabling the community to solve downstream tasks even in the zero- or few-shot regime. However, these features often lack the spatial resolution to directly perform dense prediction tasks like segmentation and depth prediction because models aggressively pool information over large areas. In this work, we introduce FeatUp, a task- and model-agnostic framework to restore lost spatial information in deep features. We introduce two variants of FeatUp: one that guides features with high-resolution signal in a single forward pass, and one that fits an implicit model to a single image to reconstruct features at any resolution. Both approaches use a multi-view consistency loss with deep analogies to NeRFs. Our features retain their original semantics and can be swapped into existing applications to yield resolution and performance gains even without re-training. We show that FeatUp significantly outperforms other feature upsampling and image super-resolution approaches in class activation map generation, transfer learning for segmentation and depth prediction, and end-to-end training for semantic segmentation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [7]
标题:  Surveyor: Facilitating Discovery Within Video Games for Blind and Low  Vision Players
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10512
作者:  Vishnu Nair,  Hanxiu 'Hazel' Zhu,  Peize Song,  Jizhong Wang,  Brian A. Smith
备注:  
Abstract:Video games are increasingly accessible to blind and low vision (BLV) players, yet many aspects remain inaccessible. One aspect is the joy players feel when they explore environments and make new discoveries, which is integral to many games. Sighted players experience discovery by surveying environments and identifying unexplored areas. Current accessibility tools, however, guide BLV players directly to items and places, robbing them of that experience. Thus, a crucial challenge is to develop navigation assistance tools that also foster exploration and discovery. To address this challenge, we propose the concept of exploration assistance in games and design Surveyor, an in-game exploration assistance tool that enhances discovery by tracking where BLV players look and highlighting unexplored areas. We designed Surveyor using insights from a formative study and compared Surveyor's effectiveness to approaches found in existing accessible games. Our findings reveal implications for facilitating richer play experiences for BLV users within games.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [8]
标题:  A Novel Framework for Multi-Person Temporal Gaze Following and Social  Gaze Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10511
作者:  Anshul Gupta,  Samy Tafasca,  Arya Farkhondeh,  Pierre Vuillecard,  Jean-Marc Odobez
备注:  
Abstract:Gaze following and social gaze prediction are fundamental tasks providing insights into human communication behaviors, intent, and social interactions. Most previous approaches addressed these tasks separately, either by designing highly specialized social gaze models that do not generalize to other social gaze tasks or by considering social gaze inference as an ad-hoc post-processing of the gaze following task. Furthermore, the vast majority of gaze following approaches have proposed static models that can handle only one person at a time, therefore failing to take advantage of social interactions and temporal dynamics. In this paper, we address these limitations and introduce a novel framework to jointly predict the gaze target and social gaze label for all people in the scene. The framework comprises of: (i) a temporal, transformer-based architecture that, in addition to image tokens, handles person-specific tokens capturing the gaze information related to each individual; (ii) a new dataset, VSGaze, that unifies annotation types across multiple gaze following and social gaze datasets. We show that our model trained on VSGaze can address all tasks jointly, and achieves state-of-the-art results for multi-person gaze following and social gaze prediction.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [9]
标题:  Demystifying Faulty Code with LLM: Step-by-Step Reasoning for  Explainable Fault Localization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10507
作者:  Ratnadira Widyasari,  Jia Wei Ang,  Truong Giang Nguyen,  Neil Sharma,  David Lo
备注:  To be appeared at 2024 IEEE International Conference on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER)
Abstract:Fault localization is a critical process that involves identifying specific program elements responsible for program failures. Manually pinpointing these elements, such as classes, methods, or statements, which are associated with a fault is laborious and time-consuming. To overcome this challenge, various fault localization tools have been developed. These tools typically generate a ranked list of suspicious program elements. However, this information alone is insufficient. A prior study emphasized that automated fault localization should offer a rationale. In this study, we investigate the step-by-step reasoning for explainable fault localization. We explore the potential of Large Language Models (LLM) in assisting developers in reasoning about code. We proposed FuseFL that utilizes several combinations of information to enhance the LLM results which are spectrum-based fault localization results, test case execution outcomes, and code description (i.e., explanation of what the given code is intended to do). We conducted our investigation using faulty code from Refactory dataset. First, we evaluate the performance of the automated fault localization. Our results demonstrate a more than 30% increase in the number of successfully localized faults at Top-1 compared to the baseline. To evaluate the explanations generated by FuseFL, we create a dataset of human explanations that provide step-by-step reasoning as to why specific lines of code are considered faulty. This dataset consists of 324 faulty code files, along with explanations for 600 faulty lines. Furthermore, we also conducted human studies to evaluate the explanations. We found that for 22 out of the 30 randomly sampled cases, FuseFL generated correct explanations.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [10]
标题:  HumanoidBench: Simulated Humanoid Benchmark for Whole-Body Locomotion  and Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10506
作者:  Carmelo Sferrazza,  Dun-Ming Huang,  Xingyu Lin,  Youngwoon Lee,  Pieter Abbeel
备注:  
Abstract:Humanoid robots hold great promise in assisting humans in diverse environments and tasks, due to their flexibility and adaptability leveraging human-like morphology. However, research in humanoid robots is often bottlenecked by the costly and fragile hardware setups. To accelerate algorithmic research in humanoid robots, we present a high-dimensional, simulated robot learning benchmark, HumanoidBench, featuring a humanoid robot equipped with dexterous hands and a variety of challenging whole-body manipulation and locomotion tasks. Our findings reveal that state-of-the-art reinforcement learning algorithms struggle with most tasks, whereas a hierarchical learning baseline achieves superior performance when supported by robust low-level policies, such as walking or reaching. With HumanoidBench, we provide the robotics community with a platform to identify the challenges arising when solving diverse tasks with humanoid robots, facilitating prompt verification of algorithms and ideas. The open-source code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [11]
标题:  ATOM: Asynchronous Training of Massive Models for Deep Learning in a  Decentralized Environment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10504
作者:  Xiaofeng Wu,  Jia Rao,  Wei Chen
备注:  
Abstract:The advent of the Transformer architecture has propelled the growth of natural language processing (NLP) models, leading to remarkable achievements in numerous NLP tasks. Yet, the absence of specialized hardware like expansive GPU memory and high-speed interconnects poses challenges for training large-scale models. This makes it daunting for many users to experiment with pre-training and fine-tuning large language models (LLMs). In this study, we introduce \atom, a resilient distributed training framework designed for asynchronous training of vast models in a decentralized setting using cost-effective hardware, including consumer-grade GPUs and Ethernet. Unlike conventional model partitioning methods that distribute sub-models across GPUs, \atom aims to accommodate a complete LLM on one host (peer) through seamlessly model swapping and concurrently trains multiple copies across various peers to optimize training throughput. Through static analysis, \atom identifies the best model partitioning strategy and flawlessly merges model execution with swapping. Key benefits of \atom include: Avoiding the central point of failure found in pipeline parallelism methods. Demonstrating superior performance and scalability compared to closely-integrated pipeline parallelism in slower networks. Our experiments using different GPT-3 model configurations reveal that, in scenarios with suboptimal network connections, \atom can enhance training efficiency up to $20 \times$ when juxtaposed with the state-of-the-art decentralized pipeline parallelism approaches.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [12]
标题:  Belief Change based on Knowledge Measures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10502
作者:  Umberto Straccia,  Giovanni Casini
备注:  48 pages, 3 figures, preprint
Abstract:Knowledge Measures (KMs) aim at quantifying the amount of knowledge/information that a knowledge base carries. On the other hand, Belief Change (BC) is the process of changing beliefs (in our case, in terms of contraction, expansion and revision) taking into account a new piece of knowledge, which possibly may be in contradiction with the current belief. We propose a new quantitative BC framework that is based on KMs by defining belief change operators that try to minimise, from an information-theoretic point of view, the surprise that the changed belief carries. To this end, we introduce the principle of minimal surprise. In particular, our contributions are (i) a general information-theoretic approach to KMs for which [1] is a special case; (ii) KM-based BC operators that satisfy the so-called AGM postulates; and (iii) a characterisation of any BC operator that satisfies the AGM postulates as a KM-based BC operator, i.e., any BC operator satisfying the AGM postulates can be encoded within our quantitative BC framework. We also introduce quantitative measures that account for the information loss of contraction, information gain of expansion and information change of revision. We also give a succinct look into the problem of iterated revision, which deals with the application of a sequence of revision operations in our framework, and also illustrate how one may build from our KM-based contraction operator also one not satisfying the (in)famous recovery postulate, by focusing on the so-called severe withdrawal model as an illustrative example.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [13]
标题:  Benchmarking Zero-Shot Robustness of Multimodal Foundation Models: A  Pilot Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10499
作者:  Chenguang Wang,  Ruoxi Jia,  Xin Liu,  Dawn Song
备注:  
Abstract:Pre-training image representations from the raw text about images enables zero-shot vision transfer to downstream tasks. Through pre-training on millions of samples collected from the internet, multimodal foundation models, such as CLIP, produce state-of-the-art zero-shot results that often reach competitiveness with fully supervised methods without the need for task-specific training. Besides the encouraging performance on classification accuracy, it is reported that these models close the robustness gap by matching the performance of supervised models trained on ImageNet under natural distribution shift. Because robustness is critical to real-world applications, especially safety-critical ones, in this paper, we present a comprehensive evaluation based on a large-scale robustness benchmark covering 7 natural, 3 synthetic distribution shifts, and 11 adversarial attacks. We use CLIP as a pilot study. We show that CLIP leads to a significant robustness drop compared to supervised ImageNet models on our benchmark, especially under synthetic distribution shift and adversarial attacks. Furthermore, data overlap analysis suggests that the observed robustness under natural distribution shifts could be attributed, at least in part, to data overlap. In summary, our evaluation shows a comprehensive evaluation of robustness is necessary; and there is a significant need to improve the robustness of zero-shot multimodal models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [14]
标题:  Data-Driven Distributionally Robust Safety Verification Using Barrier  Certificates and Conditional Mean Embeddings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10497
作者:  Oliver Schön,  Zhengang Zhong,  Sadegh Soudjani
备注:  7 pages, 2 figures, accepted to American Control Conference (ACC) 2024
Abstract:Algorithmic verification of realistic systems to satisfy safety and other temporal requirements has suffered from poor scalability of the employed formal approaches. To design systems with rigorous guarantees, many approaches still rely on exact models of the underlying systems. Since this assumption can rarely be met in practice, models have to be inferred from measurement data or are bypassed completely. Whilst former usually requires the model structure to be known a-priori and immense amounts of data to be available, latter gives rise to a plethora of restrictive mathematical assumptions about the unknown dynamics. In a pursuit of developing scalable formal verification algorithms without shifting the problem to unrealistic assumptions, we employ the concept of barrier certificates, which can guarantee safety of the system, and learn the certificate directly from a compact set of system trajectories. We use conditional mean embeddings to embed data from the system into a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) and construct an RKHS ambiguity set that can be inflated to robustify the result w.r.t. a set of plausible transition kernels. We show how to solve the resulting program efficiently using sum-of-squares optimization and a Gaussian process envelope. Our approach lifts the need for restrictive assumptions on the system dynamics and uncertainty, and suggests an improvement in the sample complexity of verifying the safety of a system on a tested case study compared to a state-of-the-art approach.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [15]
标题:  Reconfigurable Robot Identification from Motion Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10496
作者:  Yuhang Hu,  Yunzhe Wang,  Ruibo Liu,  Zhou Shen,  Hod Lipson
备注:  
Abstract:Integrating Large Language Models (VLMs) and Vision-Language Models (VLMs) with robotic systems enables robots to process and understand complex natural language instructions and visual information. However, a fundamental challenge remains: for robots to fully capitalize on these advancements, they must have a deep understanding of their physical embodiment. The gap between AI models cognitive capabilities and the understanding of physical embodiment leads to the following question: Can a robot autonomously understand and adapt to its physical form and functionalities through interaction with its environment? This question underscores the transition towards developing self-modeling robots without reliance on external sensory or pre-programmed knowledge about their structure. Here, we propose a meta self modeling that can deduce robot morphology through proprioception (the internal sense of position and movement). Our study introduces a 12 DoF reconfigurable legged robot, accompanied by a diverse dataset of 200k unique configurations, to systematically investigate the relationship between robotic motion and robot morphology. Utilizing a deep neural network model comprising a robot signature encoder and a configuration decoder, we demonstrate the capability of our system to accurately predict robot configurations from proprioceptive signals. This research contributes to the field of robotic self-modeling, aiming to enhance understanding of their physical embodiment and adaptability in real world scenarios.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [16]
标题:  Lifelong LERF: Local 3D Semantic Inventory Monitoring Using FogROS2
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10494
作者:  Adam Rashid,  Chung Min Kim,  Justin Kerr,  Letian Fu,  Kush Hari,  Ayah Ahmad,  Kaiyuan Chen,  Huang Huang,  Marcus Gualtieri,  Michael Wang,  Christian Juette,  Nan Tian,  Liu Ren,  Ken Goldberg
备注:  See project webpage at: this https URL
Abstract:Inventory monitoring in homes, factories, and retail stores relies on maintaining data despite objects being swapped, added, removed, or moved. We introduce Lifelong LERF, a method that allows a mobile robot with minimal compute to jointly optimize a dense language and geometric representation of its surroundings. Lifelong LERF maintains this representation over time by detecting semantic changes and selectively updating these regions of the environment, avoiding the need to exhaustively remap. Human users can query inventory by providing natural language queries and receiving a 3D heatmap of potential object locations. To manage the computational load, we use Fog-ROS2, a cloud robotics platform, to offload resource-intensive tasks. Lifelong LERF obtains poses from a monocular RGBD SLAM backend, and uses these poses to progressively optimize a Language Embedded Radiance Field (LERF) for semantic monitoring. Experiments with 3-5 objects arranged on a tabletop and a Turtlebot with a RealSense camera suggest that Lifelong LERF can persistently adapt to changes in objects with up to 91% accuracy.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [17]
标题:  MusicHiFi: Fast High-Fidelity Stereo Vocoding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10493
作者:  Ge Zhu,  Juan-Pablo Caceres,  Zhiyao Duan,  Nicholas J. Bryan
备注:  
Abstract:Diffusion-based audio and music generation models commonly generate music by constructing an image representation of audio (e.g., a mel-spectrogram) and then converting it to audio using a phase reconstruction model or vocoder. Typical vocoders, however, produce monophonic audio at lower resolutions (e.g., 16-24 kHz), which limits their effectiveness. We propose MusicHiFi -- an efficient high-fidelity stereophonic vocoder. Our method employs a cascade of three generative adversarial networks (GANs) that convert low-resolution mel-spectrograms to audio, upsamples to high-resolution audio via bandwidth expansion, and upmixes to stereophonic audio. Compared to previous work, we propose 1) a unified GAN-based generator and discriminator architecture and training procedure for each stage of our cascade, 2) a new fast, near downsampling-compatible bandwidth extension module, and 3) a new fast downmix-compatible mono-to-stereo upmixer that ensures the preservation of monophonic content in the output. We evaluate our approach using both objective and subjective listening tests and find our approach yields comparable or better audio quality, better spatialization control, and significantly faster inference speed compared to past work. Sound examples are at this https URL.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [18]
标题:  Mitigating Dialogue Hallucination for Large Multi-modal Models via  Adversarial Instruction Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10492
作者:  Dongmin Park,  Zhaofang Qian,  Guangxing Han,  Ser-Nam Lim
备注:  
Abstract:Mitigating hallucinations of Large Multi-modal Models(LMMs) is crucial to enhance their reliability for general-purpose assistants. This paper shows that such hallucinations of LMMs can be significantly exacerbated by preceding user-system dialogues. To precisely measure this, we first present an evaluation benchmark by extending popular multi-modal benchmark datasets with prepended hallucinatory dialogues generated by our novel Adversarial Question Generator, which can automatically generate image-related yet adversarial dialogues by adopting adversarial attacks on LMMs. On our benchmark, the zero-shot performance of state-of-the-art LMMs dropped significantly for both the VQA and Captioning tasks. Next, we further reveal this hallucination is mainly due to the prediction bias toward preceding dialogues rather than visual content. To reduce this bias, we propose Adversarial Instruction Tuning that robustly fine-tunes LMMs on augmented multi-modal instruction-following datasets with hallucinatory dialogues. Extensive experiments show that our proposed approach successfully reduces dialogue hallucination while maintaining or even improving performance.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [19]
标题:  Joint Multimodal Transformer for Dimensional Emotional Recognition in  the Wild
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10488
作者:  Paul Waligora,  Osama Zeeshan,  Haseeb Aslam,  Soufiane Belharbi,  Alessandro Lameiras Koerich,  Marco Pedersoli,  Simon Bacon,  Eric Granger
备注:  5 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:Audiovisual emotion recognition (ER) in videos has immense potential over unimodal performance. It effectively leverages the inter- and intra-modal dependencies between visual and auditory modalities. This work proposes a novel audio-visual emotion recognition system utilizing a joint multimodal transformer architecture with key-based cross-attention. This framework aims to exploit the complementary nature of audio and visual cues (facial expressions and vocal patterns) in videos, leading to superior performance compared to solely relying on a single modality. The proposed model leverages separate backbones for capturing intra-modal temporal dependencies within each modality (audio and visual). Subsequently, a joint multimodal transformer architecture integrates the individual modality embeddings, enabling the model to effectively capture inter-modal (between audio and visual) and intra-modal (within each modality) relationships. Extensive evaluations on the challenging Affwild2 dataset demonstrate that the proposed model significantly outperforms baseline and state-of-the-art methods in ER tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [20]
标题:  Stimulate the Potential of Robots via Competition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10487
作者:  Kangyao Huang,  Di Guo,  Xinyu Zhang,  Xiangyang Ji,  Huaping Liu
备注:  
Abstract:It is common for us to feel pressure in a competition environment, which arises from the desire to obtain success comparing with other individuals or opponents. Although we might get anxious under the pressure, it could also be a drive for us to stimulate our potentials to the best in order to keep up with others. Inspired by this, we propose a competitive learning framework which is able to help individual robot to acquire knowledge from the competition, fully stimulating its dynamics potential in the race. Specifically, the competition information among competitors is introduced as the additional auxiliary signal to learn advantaged actions. We further build a Multiagent-Race environment, and extensive experiments are conducted, demonstrating that robots trained in competitive environments outperform ones that are trained with SoTA algorithms in single robot environment.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [21]
标题:  Moodle Usability Assessment Methodology using the Universal Design for  Learning perspective
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10484
作者:  Rosana Montes,  Liliana Herrera,  Emilio Crisol
备注:  first version of preprint
Abstract:The application of the Universal Design for Learning framework favors the creation of virtual educational environments for all. It requires developing accessible content, having a usable platform, and the use of flexible didactics and evaluations that promote constant student motivation. The present study aims to design a methodology to evaluate the usability of the Moodle platform based on the principles of Universal Design for Learning, recognizing the importance of accessibility, usability and the availability of Assistive Technologies. We developed and applied a methodology to assess the usability level of Moodle platforms, taking into consideration that they integrate Assistive Technologies or are used for MOOC contexts. We provide the results of a use case that assesses two instances for the respective Moodle v.2.x and v.3.x family versions. We employed the framework of mixed design research in order to assess a MOOC-type educational program devised under the principles of Universal Design for Learning. As a result of the assessment of Moodle v.2.x and v.3.x, we conclude that the platforms must improve some key elements (e.g. contrasting colors, incorporation of alternative text and links) in order to comply with international accessibility standards. With respect to usability, we can confirm that the principles and guidelines of Universal Design for Learning are applicable to MOOC-type Virtual Learning Environments, are positively valued by students, and have a positive impact on certification rates.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [22]
标题:  Complete equational theories for classical and quantum Gaussian  relations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10479
作者:  Robert I. Booth,  Titouan Carette,  Cole Comfort
备注:  
Abstract:We give generators and relations for the hypergraph props of Gaussian relations and positive affine Lagrangian relations. The former extends Gaussian probabilistic processes by completely-uninformative priors, and the latter extends Gaussian quantum mechanics with infinitely-squeezed states. These presentations are given by adding a generator to the presentation of real affine relations and of real affine Lagrangian relations which freely codiscards effects, as well as certain rotations. The presentation of positive affine Lagrangian relations provides a rigorous justification for many common yet informal calculations in the quantum physics literature involving infinite-squeezing. Our presentation naturally extends Menicucci et al.'s graph-theoretic representation of Gaussian quantum states with a representation for Gaussian transformations. We interpret the LOv-calculus, a diagrammatic calculus for reasoning about passive linear-optical quantum circuits in our presentation of positive affine Lagrangian relations. Moreover, we show how our presentation allows for additional optical operations such as active squeezing.
Subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)

**编号**: [23]
标题:  Approximate Nullspace Augmented Finetuning for Robust Vision  Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10476
作者:  Haoyang Liu,  Aditya Singh,  Yijiang Li,  Haohan Wang
备注:  21 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Enhancing the robustness of deep learning models, particularly in the realm of vision transformers (ViTs), is crucial for their real-world deployment. In this work, we provide a finetuning approach to enhance the robustness of vision transformers inspired by the concept of nullspace from linear algebra. Our investigation centers on whether a vision transformer can exhibit resilience to input variations akin to the nullspace property in linear mappings, implying that perturbations sampled from this nullspace do not influence the model's output when added to the input. Firstly, we show that for many pretrained ViTs, a non-trivial nullspace exists due to the presence of the patch embedding layer. Secondly, as nullspace is a concept associated with linear algebra, we demonstrate that it is possible to synthesize approximate nullspace elements for the non-linear blocks of ViTs employing an optimisation strategy. Finally, we propose a fine-tuning strategy for ViTs wherein we augment the training data with synthesized approximate nullspace noise. After finetuning, we find that the model demonstrates robustness to adversarial and natural image perbutations alike.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [24]
标题:  An Empirical Study on Developers Shared Conversations with ChatGPT in  GitHub Pull Requests and Issues
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10468
作者:  Huizi Hao,  Kazi Amit Hasan,  Hong Qin,  Marcos Macedo,  Yuan Tian,  Steven H. H. Ding,  Ahmed E. Hassan
备注:  
Abstract:ChatGPT has significantly impacted software development practices, providing substantial assistance to developers in a variety of tasks, including coding, testing, and debugging. Despite its widespread adoption, the impact of ChatGPT as an assistant in collaborative coding remains largely unexplored. In this paper, we analyze a dataset of 210 and 370 developers shared conversations with ChatGPT in GitHub pull requests (PRs) and issues. We manually examined the content of the conversations and characterized the dynamics of the sharing behavior, i.e., understanding the rationale behind the sharing, identifying the locations where the conversations were shared, and determining the roles of the developers who shared them. Our main observations are: (1) Developers seek ChatGPT assistance across 16 types of software engineering inquiries. In both conversations shared in PRs and issues, the most frequently encountered inquiry categories include code generation, conceptual questions, how-to guides, issue resolution, and code review. (2) Developers frequently engage with ChatGPT via multi-turn conversations where each prompt can fulfill various roles, such as unveiling initial or new tasks, iterative follow-up, and prompt refinement. Multi-turn conversations account for 33.2% of the conversations shared in PRs and 36.9% in issues. (3) In collaborative coding, developers leverage shared conversations with ChatGPT to facilitate their role-specific contributions, whether as authors of PRs or issues, code reviewers, or collaborators on issues. Our work serves as the first step towards understanding the dynamics between developers and ChatGPT in collaborative software development and opens up new directions for future research on the topic.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [25]
标题:  Safety Cases: Justifying the Safety of Advanced AI Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10462
作者:  Joshua Clymer,  Nick Gabrieli,  David Krueger,  Thomas Larsen
备注:  
Abstract:As AI systems become more advanced, companies and regulators will make difficult decisions about whether it is safe to train and deploy them. To prepare for these decisions, we investigate how developers could make a 'safety case,' which is a structured rationale that AI systems are unlikely to cause a catastrophe. We propose a framework for organizing a safety case and discuss four categories of arguments to justify safety: total inability to cause a catastrophe, sufficiently strong control measures, trustworthiness despite capability to cause harm, and deference to credible AI advisors. We evaluate concrete examples of arguments in each category and outline how arguments could be combined to justify that AI systems are safe to deploy.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [26]
标题:  Introducing Adaptive Continuous Adversarial Training (ACAT) to Enhance  ML Robustness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10461
作者:  Mohamed elShehaby,  Aditya Kotha,  Ashraf Matrawy
备注:  
Abstract:Machine Learning (ML) is susceptible to adversarial attacks that aim to trick ML models, making them produce faulty predictions. Adversarial training was found to increase the robustness of ML models against these attacks. However, in network and cybersecurity, obtaining labeled training and adversarial training data is challenging and costly. Furthermore, concept drift deepens the challenge, particularly in dynamic domains like network and cybersecurity, and requires various models to conduct periodic retraining. This letter introduces Adaptive Continuous Adversarial Training (ACAT) to continuously integrate adversarial training samples into the model during ongoing learning sessions, using real-world detected adversarial data, to enhance model resilience against evolving adversarial threats. ACAT is an adaptive defense mechanism that utilizes periodic retraining to effectively counter adversarial attacks while mitigating catastrophic forgetting. Our approach also reduces the total time required for adversarial sample detection, especially in environments such as network security where the rate of attacks could be very high. Traditional detection processes that involve two stages may result in lengthy procedures. Experimental results using a SPAM detection dataset demonstrate that with ACAT, the accuracy of the SPAM filter increased from 69% to over 88% after just three retraining sessions. Furthermore, ACAT outperforms conventional adversarial sample detectors, providing faster decision times, up to four times faster in some cases.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [27]
标题:  Online Concurrent Multi-Robot Coverage Path Planning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10460
作者:  Ratijit Mitra,  Indranil Saha
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, centralized receding horizon online multi-robot coverage path planning algorithms have shown remarkable scalability in thoroughly exploring large, complex, unknown workspaces with many robots. In a horizon, the path planning and the path execution interleave, meaning when the path planning occurs for robots with no paths, the robots with outstanding paths do not execute, and subsequently, when the robots with new or outstanding paths execute to reach respective goals, path planning does not occur for those robots yet to get new paths, leading to wastage of both the robotic and the computation resources. As a remedy, we propose a centralized algorithm that is not horizon-based. It plans paths at any time for a subset of robots with no paths, i.e., who have reached their previously assigned goals, while the rest execute their outstanding paths, thereby enabling concurrent planning and execution. We formally prove that the proposed algorithm ensures complete coverage of an unknown workspace and analyze its time complexity. To demonstrate scalability, we evaluate our algorithm to cover eight large $2$D grid benchmark workspaces with up to 512 aerial and ground robots, respectively. A comparison with a state-of-the-art horizon-based algorithm shows its superiority in completing the coverage with up to 1.6x speedup. For validation, we perform ROS + Gazebo simulations in six 2D grid benchmark workspaces with 10 quadcopters and TurtleBots, respectively. We also successfully conducted one outdoor experiment with three quadcopters and one indoor with two TurtleBots.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [28]
标题:  Understanding the Double Descent Phenomenon in Deep Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10459
作者:  Marc Lafon,  Alexandre Thomas
备注:  
Abstract:Combining empirical risk minimization with capacity control is a classical strategy in machine learning when trying to control the generalization gap and avoid overfitting, as the model class capacity gets larger. Yet, in modern deep learning practice, very large over-parameterized models (e.g. neural networks) are optimized to fit perfectly the training data and still obtain great generalization performance. Past the interpolation point, increasing model complexity seems to actually lower the test error. In this tutorial, we explain the concept of double descent and its mechanisms. The first section sets the classical statistical learning framework and introduces the double descent phenomenon. By looking at a number of examples, section 2 introduces inductive biases that appear to have a key role in double descent by selecting, among the multiple interpolating solutions, a smooth empirical risk minimizer. Finally, section 3 explores the double descent with two linear models, and gives other points of view from recent related works.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [29]
标题:  Partially Observable Task and Motion Planning with Uncertainty and Risk  Awareness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10454
作者:  Aidan Curtis,  George Matheos,  Nishad Gothoskar,  Vikash Mansinghka,  Joshua Tenenbaum,  Tomás Lozano-Pérez,  Leslie Pack Kaelbling
备注:  
Abstract:Integrated task and motion planning (TAMP) has proven to be a valuable approach to generalizable long-horizon robotic manipulation and navigation problems. However, the typical TAMP problem formulation assumes full observability and deterministic action effects. These assumptions limit the ability of the planner to gather information and make decisions that are risk-aware. We propose a strategy for TAMP with Uncertainty and Risk Awareness (TAMPURA) that is capable of efficiently solving long-horizon planning problems with initial-state and action outcome uncertainty, including problems that require information gathering and avoiding undesirable and irreversible outcomes. Our planner reasons under uncertainty at both the abstract task level and continuous controller level. Given a set of closed-loop goal-conditioned controllers operating in the primitive action space and a description of their preconditions and potential capabilities, we learn a high-level abstraction that can be solved efficiently and then refined to continuous actions for execution. We demonstrate our approach on several robotics problems where uncertainty is a crucial factor and show that reasoning under uncertainty in these problems outperforms previously proposed determinized planning, direct search, and reinforcement learning strategies. Lastly, we demonstrate our planner on two real-world robotics problems using recent advancements in probabilistic perception.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [30]
标题:  Robust Shape Fitting for 3D Scene Abstraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10452
作者:  Florian Kluger,  Eric Brachmann,  Michael Ying Yang,  Bodo Rosenhahn
备注:  Accepted for publication in Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (PAMI). arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2105.02047
Abstract:Humans perceive and construct the world as an arrangement of simple parametric models. In particular, we can often describe man-made environments using volumetric primitives such as cuboids or cylinders. Inferring these primitives is important for attaining high-level, abstract scene descriptions. Previous approaches for primitive-based abstraction estimate shape parameters directly and are only able to reproduce simple objects. In contrast, we propose a robust estimator for primitive fitting, which meaningfully abstracts complex real-world environments using cuboids. A RANSAC estimator guided by a neural network fits these primitives to a depth map. We condition the network on previously detected parts of the scene, parsing it one-by-one. To obtain cuboids from single RGB images, we additionally optimise a depth estimation CNN end-to-end. Naively minimising point-to-primitive distances leads to large or spurious cuboids occluding parts of the scene. We thus propose an improved occlusion-aware distance metric correctly handling opaque scenes. Furthermore, we present a neural network based cuboid solver which provides more parsimonious scene abstractions while also reducing inference time. The proposed algorithm does not require labour-intensive labels, such as cuboid annotations, for training. Results on the NYU Depth v2 dataset demonstrate that the proposed algorithm successfully abstracts cluttered real-world 3D scene layouts.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [31]
标题:  Subgame Optimal and Prior-Independent Online Algorithms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10451
作者:  Jason Hartline,  Aleck Johnsen,  Anant Shah
备注:  22 main pages, 1 figure
Abstract:This paper takes a game theoretic approach to the design and analysis of online algorithms and illustrates the approach on the finite-horizon ski-rental problem. This approach allows beyond worst-case analysis of online algorithms. First, we define "subgame optimality" which is stronger than worst case optimality in that it requires the algorithm to take advantage of an adversary not playing a worst case input. Algorithms only focusing on the worst case can be far from subgame optimal. Second, we consider prior-independent design and analysis of online algorithms, where rather than choosing a worst case input, the adversary chooses a worst case independent and identical distribution over inputs. Prior-independent online algorithms are generally analytically intractable; instead we give a fully polynomial time approximation scheme to compute them. Highlighting the potential improvement from these paradigms for the finite-horizon ski-rental problem, we empirically compare worst-case, subgame optimal, and prior-independent algorithms in the prior-independent framework.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [32]
标题:  Enhancing LLM Factual Accuracy with RAG to Counter Hallucinations: A  Case Study on Domain-Specific Queries in Private Knowledge-Bases
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10446
作者:  Jiarui Li,  Ye Yuan,  Zehua Zhang
备注:  These authors contributed equally to this work
Abstract:We proposed an end-to-end system design towards utilizing Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) to improve the factual accuracy of Large Language Models (LLMs) for domain-specific and time-sensitive queries related to private knowledge-bases. Our system integrates RAG pipeline with upstream datasets processing and downstream performance evaluation. Addressing the challenge of LLM hallucinations, we finetune models with a curated dataset which originates from CMU's extensive resources and annotated with the teacher model. Our experiments demonstrate the system's effectiveness in generating more accurate answers to domain-specific and time-sensitive inquiries. The results also revealed the limitations of fine-tuning LLMs with small-scale and skewed datasets. This research highlights the potential of RAG systems in augmenting LLMs with external datasets for improved performance in knowledge-intensive tasks. Our code and models are available on Github.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [33]
标题:  Optimal Block-Level Draft Verification for Accelerating Speculative  Decoding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10444
作者:  Ziteng Sun,  Jae Hun Ro,  Ahmad Beirami,  Ananda Theertha Suresh
备注:  
Abstract:Speculative decoding has shown to be an effective method for lossless acceleration of large language models (LLMs) during inference. In each iteration, the algorithm first uses a smaller model to draft a block of tokens. The tokens are then verified by the large model in parallel and only a subset of tokens will be kept to guarantee that the final output follows the distribution of the large model. In all of the prior speculative decoding works, the draft verification is performed token-by-token independently. In this work, we propose a better draft verification algorithm that provides additional wall-clock speedup without incurring additional computation cost and draft tokens. We first formulate the draft verification step as a block-level optimal transport problem. The block-level formulation allows us to consider a wider range of draft verification algorithms and obtain a higher number of accepted tokens in expectation in one draft block. We propose a verification algorithm that achieves the optimal accepted length for the block-level transport problem. We empirically evaluate our proposed block-level verification algorithm in a wide range of tasks and datasets, and observe consistent improvements in wall-clock speedup when compared to token-level verification algorithm. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to establish improvement over speculative decoding through a better draft verification algorithm.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [34]
标题:  Data Ethics Emergency Drill: A Toolbox for Discussing Responsible AI for  Industry Teams
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10438
作者:  Vanessa Aisyahsari Hanschke,  Dylan Rees,  Merve Alanyali,  David Hopkinson,  Paul Marshall
备注:  accepted to CHI 2024
Abstract:Researchers urge technology practitioners such as data scientists to consider the impacts and ethical implications of algorithmic decisions. However, unlike programming, statistics, and data management, discussion of ethical implications is rarely included in standard data science training. To begin to address this gap, we designed and tested a toolbox called the data ethics emergency drill (DEED) to help data science teams discuss and reflect on the ethical implications of their work. The DEED is a roleplay of a fictional ethical emergency scenario that is contextually situated in the team's specific workplace and applications. This paper outlines the DEED toolbox and describes three studies carried out with two different data science teams that iteratively shaped its design. Our findings show that practitioners can apply lessons learnt from the roleplay to real-life situations, and how the DEED opened up conversations around ethics and values.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [35]
标题:  H-MaP: An Iterative and Hybrid Sequential Manipulation Planner
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10436
作者:  Berk Cicek,  Cankut Bora Tuncer,  Busenaz Kerimgil,  Ozgur S. Oguz
备注:  
Abstract:This study introduces the Hybrid Sequential Manipulation Planner (H-MaP), a novel approach that iteratively does motion planning using contact points and waypoints for complex sequential manipulation tasks in robotics. Combining optimization-based methods for generalizability and sampling-based methods for robustness, H-MaP enhances manipulation planning through active contact mode switches and enables interactions with auxiliary objects and tools. This framework, validated by a series of diverse physical manipulation tasks and real-robot experiments, offers a scalable and adaptable solution for complex real-world applications in robotic manipulation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [36]
标题:  On the Use of Cramer-Rao Lower Bound for Least-Variance Circuit  Parameters Identification of Li-ion Cells
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10435
作者:  Vladimir Sovljanski,  Mario Paolone
备注:  
Abstract:Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) and Equivalent Circuit Models (ECMs) are widely used to characterize the impedance and estimate parameters of electrochemical systems such as batteries. We use a generic ECM with ten parameters grouped to model different frequency regions of the Li-ion cell's impedance spectrum. We derive a noise covariance matrix from the measurement model and use it to assign weights for the fitting technique. The paper presents two formulations of the parameters identification problem. Using the properties of the ECM EIS spectra, we propose a method to initialize ECM parameters for the Complex Non-linear Least Squares (CNLS) technique. The paper proposes a novel algorithm for designing the EIS experiments by applying the theory on Cramer-Rao Lower Bound (CRLB) and Fisher Information Matrix (FIM) to the identification problem. We show that contributions to the FIM elements strongly depend on the frequencies at which EIS is performed. Hence, the algorithm aims to adjust frequencies such that the most information about parameters is collected. This is done by minimizing the highest variance of ECM parameters defined by CRLB. Results of a numerical experiment show that the estimator is efficient, and frequency adjustment leads to more accurate ECM parameters' identification.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [37]
标题:  Using an LLM to Turn Sign Spottings into Spoken Language Sentences
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10434
作者:  Ozge Mercanoglu Sincan,  Necati Cihan Camgoz,  Richard Bowden
备注:  
Abstract:Sign Language Translation (SLT) is a challenging task that aims to generate spoken language sentences from sign language videos. In this paper, we introduce a hybrid SLT approach, Spotter+GPT, that utilizes a sign spotter and a pretrained large language model to improve SLT performance. Our method builds upon the strengths of both components. The videos are first processed by the spotter, which is trained on a linguistic sign language dataset, to identify individual signs. These spotted signs are then passed to the powerful language model, which transforms them into coherent and contextually appropriate spoken language sentences.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [38]
标题:  AI-enhanced Collective Intelligence: The State of the Art and Prospects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10433
作者:  Hao Cui,  Taha Yasseri
备注:  27 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:The current societal challenges exceed the capacity of human individual or collective effort alone. As AI evolves, its role within human collectives is poised to vary from an assistive tool to a participatory member. Humans and AI possess complementary capabilities that, when synergized, can achieve a level of collective intelligence that surpasses the collective capabilities of either humans or AI in isolation. However, the interactions in human-AI systems are inherently complex, involving intricate processes and interdependencies. This review incorporates perspectives from network science to conceptualize a multilayer representation of human-AI collective intelligence, comprising a cognition layer, a physical layer, and an information layer. Within this multilayer network, humans and AI agents exhibit varying characteristics; humans differ in diversity from surface-level to deep-level attributes, while AI agents range in degrees of functionality and anthropomorphism. The interplay among these agents shapes the overall structure and dynamics of the system. We explore how agents' diversity and interactions influence the system's collective intelligence. Furthermore, we present an analysis of real-world instances of AI-enhanced collective intelligence. We conclude by addressing the potential challenges in AI-enhanced collective intelligence and offer perspectives on future developments in this field.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [39]
标题:  SWAG: Splatting in the Wild images with Appearance-conditioned Gaussians
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10427
作者:  Hiba Dahmani,  Moussab Bennehar,  Nathan Piasco,  Luis Roldao,  Dzmitry Tsishkou
备注:  
Abstract:Implicit neural representation methods have shown impressive advancements in learning 3D scenes from unstructured in-the-wild photo collections but are still limited by the large computational cost of volumetric rendering. More recently, 3D Gaussian Splatting emerged as a much faster alternative with superior rendering quality and training efficiency, especially for small-scale and object-centric scenarios. Nevertheless, this technique suffers from poor performance on unstructured in-the-wild data. To tackle this, we extend over 3D Gaussian Splatting to handle unstructured image collections. We achieve this by modeling appearance to seize photometric variations in the rendered images. Additionally, we introduce a new mechanism to train transient Gaussians to handle the presence of scene occluders in an unsupervised manner. Experiments on diverse photo collection scenes and multi-pass acquisition of outdoor landmarks show the effectiveness of our method over prior works achieving state-of-the-art results with improved efficiency.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [40]
标题:  NeuFlow: Real-time, High-accuracy Optical Flow Estimation on Robots  Using Edge Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10425
作者:  Zhiyong Zhang,  Huaizu Jiang,  Hanumant Singh
备注:  
Abstract:Real-time high-accuracy optical flow estimation is a crucial component in various applications, including localization and mapping in robotics, object tracking, and activity recognition in computer vision. While recent learning-based optical flow methods have achieved high accuracy, they often come with heavy computation costs. In this paper, we propose a highly efficient optical flow architecture, called NeuFlow, that addresses both high accuracy and computational cost concerns. The architecture follows a global-to-local scheme. Given the features of the input images extracted at different spatial resolutions, global matching is employed to estimate an initial optical flow on the 1/16 resolution, capturing large displacement, which is then refined on the 1/8 resolution with lightweight CNN layers for better accuracy. We evaluate our approach on Jetson Orin Nano and RTX 2080 to demonstrate efficiency improvements across different computing platforms. We achieve a notable 10x-80x speedup compared to several state-of-the-art methods, while maintaining comparable accuracy. Our approach achieves around 30 FPS on edge computing platforms, which represents a significant breakthrough in deploying complex computer vision tasks such as SLAM on small robots like drones. The full training and evaluation code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [41]
标题:  Structured Evaluation of Synthetic Tabular Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10424
作者:  Scott Cheng-Hsin Yang,  Baxter Eaves,  Michael Schmidt,  Ken Swanson,  Patrick Shafto
备注:  
Abstract:Tabular data is common yet typically incomplete, small in volume, and access-restricted due to privacy concerns. Synthetic data generation offers potential solutions. Many metrics exist for evaluating the quality of synthetic tabular data; however, we lack an objective, coherent interpretation of the many metrics. To address this issue, we propose an evaluation framework with a single, mathematical objective that posits that the synthetic data should be drawn from the same distribution as the observed data. Through various structural decomposition of the objective, this framework allows us to reason for the first time the completeness of any set of metrics, as well as unifies existing metrics, including those that stem from fidelity considerations, downstream application, and model-based approaches. Moreover, the framework motivates model-free baselines and a new spectrum of metrics. We evaluate structurally informed synthesizers and synthesizers powered by deep learning. Using our structured framework, we show that synthetic data generators that explicitly represent tabular structure outperform other methods, especially on smaller datasets.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [42]
标题:  Robust Sparse Estimation for Gaussians with Optimal Error under Huber  Contamination
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10416
作者:  Ilias Diakonikolas,  Daniel M. Kane,  Sushrut Karmalkar,  Ankit Pensia,  Thanasis Pittas
备注:  
Abstract:We study Gaussian sparse estimation tasks in Huber's contamination model with a focus on mean estimation, PCA, and linear regression. For each of these tasks, we give the first sample and computationally efficient robust estimators with optimal error guarantees, within constant factors. All prior efficient algorithms for these tasks incur quantitatively suboptimal error. Concretely, for Gaussian robust $k$-sparse mean estimation on $\mathbb{R}^d$ with corruption rate $\epsilon>0$, our algorithm has sample complexity $(k^2/\epsilon^2)\mathrm{polylog}(d/\epsilon)$, runs in sample polynomial time, and approximates the target mean within $\ell_2$-error $O(\epsilon)$. Previous efficient algorithms inherently incur error $\Omega(\epsilon \sqrt{\log(1/\epsilon)})$. At the technical level, we develop a novel multidimensional filtering method in the sparse regime that may find other applications.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [43]
标题:  Gradient based Feature Attribution in Explainable AI: A Technical Review
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10415
作者:  Yongjie Wang,  Tong Zhang,  Xu Guo,  Zhiqi Shen
备注:  
Abstract:The surge in black-box AI models has prompted the need to explain the internal mechanism and justify their reliability, especially in high-stakes applications, such as healthcare and autonomous driving. Due to the lack of a rigorous definition of explainable AI (XAI), a plethora of research related to explainability, interpretability, and transparency has been developed to explain and analyze the model from various perspectives. Consequently, with an exhaustive list of papers, it becomes challenging to have a comprehensive overview of XAI research from all aspects. Considering the popularity of neural networks in AI research, we narrow our focus to a specific area of XAI research: gradient based explanations, which can be directly adopted for neural network models. In this review, we systematically explore gradient based explanation methods to date and introduce a novel taxonomy to categorize them into four distinct classes. Then, we present the essence of technique details in chronological order and underscore the evolution of algorithms. Next, we introduce both human and quantitative evaluations to measure algorithm performance. More importantly, we demonstrate the general challenges in XAI and specific challenges in gradient based explanations. We hope that this survey can help researchers understand state-of-the-art progress and their corresponding disadvantages, which could spark their interest in addressing these issues in future work.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [44]
标题:  Real-Time Image Segmentation via Hybrid Convolutional-Transformer  Architecture Search
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10413
作者:  Hongyuan Yu,  Cheng Wan,  Mengchen Liu,  Dongdong Chen,  Bin Xiao,  Xiyang Dai
备注:  8 pages, 3 figures, submitted to IROS 2024
Abstract:Image segmentation is one of the most fundamental problems in computer vision and has drawn a lot of attentions due to its vast applications in image understanding and autonomous driving. However, designing effective and efficient segmentation neural architectures is a labor-intensive process that may require lots of trials by human experts. In this paper, we address the challenge of integrating multi-head self-attention into high resolution representation CNNs efficiently, by leveraging architecture search. Manually replacing convolution layers with multi-head self-attention is non-trivial due to the costly overhead in memory to maintain high resolution. By contrast, we develop a multi-target multi-branch supernet method, which not only fully utilizes the advantages of high-resolution features, but also finds the proper location for placing multi-head self-attention module. Our search algorithm is optimized towards multiple objective s (e.g., latency and mIoU) and capable of finding architectures on Pareto frontier with arbitrary number of branches in a single search. We further present a series of model via Hybrid Convolutional-Transformer Architecture Search (HyCTAS) method that searched for the best hybrid combination of light-weight convolution layers and memory-efficient self-attention layers between branches from different resolutions and fuse to high resolution for both efficiency and effectiveness. Extensive experiments demonstrate that HyCTAS outperforms previous methods on semantic segmentation task. Code and models are available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [45]
标题:  RIS-Assisted Physical Layer Security in Emerging RF and Optical Wireless  Communication Systems: A Comprehensive Survey
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10412
作者:  Majid H. Khoshafa,  Omar Maraqa,  Jules M. Moualeu,  Sylvester Aboagye,  Telex M. N. Ngatched,  Mohamed H. Ahmed,  Yasser Gadallah,  Marco Di Renzo
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication
Abstract:Physical layer security (PLS) has received a growing interest from the research community for its ability to safeguard data confidentiality without relying on key distribution or encryption/decryption. However, the evolution towards the 5G technology and beyond poses new security challenges that must be addressed in order to fulfill the unprecedented performance requirements of future wireless networks. Among the potential enabling technologies, RIS has attracted extensive attention due to its ability to proactively and intelligently reconfigure the wireless propagation environment to combat dynamic wireless channel impairments. Consequently, the RIS technology can be adopted to improve the information-theoretic security of both RF and OWC systems. This survey paper provides a comprehensive overview of the information-theoretic security of RIS-based RF and optical systems. The article first discusses the fundamental concepts of PLS and RIS technologies, followed by their combination in both RF and OWC systems. Subsequently, some optimization techniques are presented in the context of the underlying system model, followed by an assessment of the impact of RIS-assisted PLS through a comprehensive performance analysis. Given that the computational complexity of future communication systems that adopt RIS-assisted PLS is likely to increase rapidly as the number of interactions between the users and infrastructure grows, ML is seen as a promising approach to address this complexity issue while sustaining or improving the network performance. A discussion of recent research studies on RIS-assisted PLS-based systems embedded with ML is presented. Furthermore, some important open research challenges are proposed and discussed to provide insightful future research directions, with the aim of moving a step closer towards the development and implementation of the forthcoming 6G wireless technology.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [46]
标题:  SocialGenPod: Privacy-Friendly Generative AI Social Web Applications  with Decentralised Personal Data Stores
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10408
作者:  Vidminas Vizgirda (1),  Rui Zhao (2),  Naman Goel (2) ((1) University of Edinburgh, (2) University of Oxford)
备注:  Demo paper accepted in Companion Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024
Abstract:We present SocialGenPod, a decentralised and privacy-friendly way of deploying generative AI Web applications. Unlike centralised Web and data architectures that keep user data tied to application and service providers, we show how one can use Solid -- a decentralised Web specification -- to decouple user data from generative AI applications. We demonstrate SocialGenPod using a prototype that allows users to converse with different Large Language Models, optionally leveraging Retrieval Augmented Generation to generate answers grounded in private documents stored in any Solid Pod that the user is allowed to access, directly or indirectly. SocialGenPod makes use of Solid access control mechanisms to give users full control of determining who has access to data stored in their Pods. SocialGenPod keeps all user data (chat history, app configuration, personal documents, etc) securely in the user's personal Pod; separate from specific model or application providers. Besides better privacy controls, this approach also enables portability across different services and applications. Finally, we discuss challenges, posed by the large compute requirements of state-of-the-art models, that future research in this area should address. Our prototype is open-source and available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [47]
标题:  A Thorough Comparison of Cross-Encoders and LLMs for Reranking SPLADE
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10407
作者:  Hervé Déjean,  Stéphane Clinchant,  Thibault Formal
备注:  
Abstract:We present a comparative study between cross-encoder and LLMs rerankers in the context of re-ranking effective SPLADE retrievers. We conduct a large evaluation on TREC Deep Learning datasets and out-of-domain datasets such as BEIR and LoTTE. In the first set of experiments, we show how cross-encoder rerankers are hard to distinguish when it comes to re-rerank SPLADE on MS MARCO. Observations shift in the out-of-domain scenario, where both the type of model and the number of documents to re-rank have an impact on effectiveness. Then, we focus on listwise rerankers based on Large Language Models -- especially GPT-4. While GPT-4 demonstrates impressive (zero-shot) performance, we show that traditional cross-encoders remain very competitive. Overall, our findings aim to to provide a more nuanced perspective on the recent excitement surrounding LLM-based re-rankers -- by positioning them as another factor to consider in balancing effectiveness and efficiency in search systems.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [48]
标题:  Deep Bi-directional Attention Network for Image Super-Resolution Quality  Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10406
作者:  Yixiao Li,  Xiaoyuan Yang,  Jun Fu,  Guanghui Yue,  Wei Zhou
备注:  7 pages, 3 figures, published to 2024 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME)
Abstract:There has emerged a growing interest in exploring efficient quality assessment algorithms for image super-resolution (SR). However, employing deep learning techniques, especially dual-branch algorithms, to automatically evaluate the visual quality of SR images remains challenging. Existing SR image quality assessment (IQA) metrics based on two-stream networks lack interactions between branches. To address this, we propose a novel full-reference IQA (FR-IQA) method for SR images. Specifically, producing SR images and evaluating how close the SR images are to the corresponding HR references are separate processes. Based on this consideration, we construct a deep Bi-directional Attention Network (BiAtten-Net) that dynamically deepens visual attention to distortions in both processes, which aligns well with the human visual system (HVS). Experiments on public SR quality databases demonstrate the superiority of our proposed BiAtten-Net over state-of-the-art quality assessment methods. In addition, the visualization results and ablation study show the effectiveness of bi-directional attention.
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [49]
标题:  A comparative study on machine learning approaches for rock mass  classification using drilling data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10404
作者:  Tom F. Hansen,  Georg H. Erharter,  Zhongqiang Liu,  Jim Torresen
备注:  
Abstract:Current rock engineering design in drill and blast tunnelling primarily relies on engineers' observational assessments. Measure While Drilling (MWD) data, a high-resolution sensor dataset collected during tunnel excavation, is underutilised, mainly serving for geological visualisation. This study aims to automate the translation of MWD data into actionable metrics for rock engineering. It seeks to link data to specific engineering actions, thus providing critical decision support for geological challenges ahead of the tunnel face. Leveraging a large and geologically diverse dataset of 500,000 drillholes from 15 tunnels, the research introduces models for accurate rock mass quality classification in a real-world tunnelling context. Both conventional machine learning and image-based deep learning are explored to classify MWD data into Q-classes and Q-values, examples of metrics describing the stability of the rock mass, using both tabular and image data. The results indicate that the K-nearest neighbours algorithm in an ensemble with tree-based models using tabular data, effectively classifies rock mass quality. It achieves a cross-validated balanced accuracy of 0.86 in classifying rock mass into the Q-classes A, B, C, D, E1, E2, and 0.95 for a binary classification with E versus the rest. Classification using a CNN with MWD-images for each blasting round resulted in a balanced accuracy of 0.82 for binary classification. Regressing the Q-value from tabular MWD-data achieved cross-validated R2 and MSE scores of 0.80 and 0.18 for a similar ensemble model as in classification. High performance in regression and classification boosts confidence in automated rock mass assessment. Applying advanced modelling on a unique dataset demonstrates MWD data's value in improving rock mass classification accuracy and advancing data-driven rock engineering design, reducing manual intervention.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [50]
标题:  Energy Correction Model in the Feature Space for Out-of-Distribution  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10403
作者:  Marc Lafon,  Clément Rambour,  Nicolas Thome
备注:  NeurIPS ML Safety Workshop (2022)
Abstract:In this work, we study the out-of-distribution (OOD) detection problem through the use of the feature space of a pre-trained deep classifier. We show that learning the density of in-distribution (ID) features with an energy-based models (EBM) leads to competitive detection results. However, we found that the non-mixing of MCMC sampling during the EBM's training undermines its detection performance. To overcome this an energy-based correction of a mixture of class-conditional Gaussian distributions. We obtains favorable results when compared to a strong baseline like the KNN detector on the CIFAR-10/CIFAR-100 OOD detection benchmarks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [51]
标题:  SculptDiff: Learning Robotic Clay Sculpting from Humans with Goal  Conditioned Diffusion Policy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10401
作者:  Alison Bartsch,  Arvind Car,  Charlotte Avra,  Amir Barati Farimani
备注:  
Abstract:Manipulating deformable objects remains a challenge within robotics due to the difficulties of state estimation, long-horizon planning, and predicting how the object will deform given an interaction. These challenges are the most pronounced with 3D deformable objects. We propose SculptDiff, a goal-conditioned diffusion-based imitation learning framework that works with point cloud state observations to directly learn clay sculpting policies for a variety of target shapes. To the best of our knowledge this is the first real-world method that successfully learns manipulation policies for 3D deformable objects. For sculpting videos and access to our dataset and hardware CAD models, see the project website: this https URL
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [52]
标题:  Collaborative Aquatic Positioning system Utilising Multi-beam Sonar and  Depth Sensors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10397
作者:  Xueliang Cheng,  Barry Lennox,  Keir Groves
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible
Abstract:Accurate positioning of underwater robots in confined environments is crucial for inspection and mapping tasks and is also a prerequisite for autonomous operations. Presently, there are no positioning systems available that are suited for real-world use in confined underwater environments, unconstrained by environmental lighting and water turbidity levels and have sufficient accuracy for reliable and repeatable navigation. This shortage presents a significant barrier to enhancing the capabilities of ROVs in such scenarios. This paper introduces an innovative positioning system for ROVs operating in confined, cluttered underwater settings, achieved through the collaboration of an omnidirectional surface vehicle and an ROV. A formulation is proposed and evaluated in the simulation against ground truth. The experimental results from the simulation form a proof of principle of the proposed system and also demonstrate its deployability. Unlike many previous approaches, the system does not rely on fixed infrastructure or tracking of features in the environment and can cover large enclosed areas without additional equipment.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [53]
标题:  On well-posedness of the leak localization problem in parallel pipe  networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10396
作者:  Victor Molnö,  Henrik Sandberg
备注:  Submitted to Automatica
Abstract:With the advent of integrated sensor technology (smart flow meters and pressure sensors), various new numerical algorithms for leak localization (a core element of water distribution system operation) have been developed. However, there is a lack of theory regarding the limitations of leak localization. In this work, we contribute to the development of such a theory by introducing an example water network structure with parallel pipes that is tractable for analytical treatment. We define the leak localization problem for this structure and show how many sensors and what conditions are needed for the well-posedness of the problem. We present a formula for the leak position as a function of measurements from these sensors. However, we also highlight the risk of finding false but plausible leak positions in the multiple pipes. We try to answer the questions of how and when the leaking pipe can be isolated. In particular, we show that nonlinearities in the pipes' head loss functions are essential for the well-posedness of the isolation problem. We propose procedures to get around the pitfall of multiple plausible leak positions.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [54]
标题:  Isotropic3D: Image-to-3D Generation Based on a Single CLIP Embedding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10395
作者:  Pengkun Liu,  Yikai Wang,  Fuchun Sun,  Jiafang Li,  Hang Xiao,  Hongxiang Xue,  Xinzhou Wang
备注:  Project page: this https URL Source code: this https URL
Abstract:Encouraged by the growing availability of pre-trained 2D diffusion models, image-to-3D generation by leveraging Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) is making remarkable progress. Most existing methods combine novel-view lifting from 2D diffusion models which usually take the reference image as a condition while applying hard L2 image supervision at the reference view. Yet heavily adhering to the image is prone to corrupting the inductive knowledge of the 2D diffusion model leading to flat or distorted 3D generation frequently. In this work, we reexamine image-to-3D in a novel perspective and present Isotropic3D, an image-to-3D generation pipeline that takes only an image CLIP embedding as input. Isotropic3D allows the optimization to be isotropic w.r.t. the azimuth angle by solely resting on the SDS loss. The core of our framework lies in a two-stage diffusion model fine-tuning. Firstly, we fine-tune a text-to-3D diffusion model by substituting its text encoder with an image encoder, by which the model preliminarily acquires image-to-image capabilities. Secondly, we perform fine-tuning using our Explicit Multi-view Attention (EMA) which combines noisy multi-view images with the noise-free reference image as an explicit condition. CLIP embedding is sent to the diffusion model throughout the whole process while reference images are discarded once after fine-tuning. As a result, with a single image CLIP embedding, Isotropic3D is capable of generating multi-view mutually consistent images and also a 3D model with more symmetrical and neat content, well-proportioned geometry, rich colored texture, and less distortion compared with existing image-to-3D methods while still preserving the similarity to the reference image to a large extent. The project page is available at this https URL. The code and models are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [55]
标题:  CDMAD: Class-Distribution-Mismatch-Aware Debiasing for Class-Imbalanced  Semi-Supervised Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10391
作者:  Hyuck Lee,  Heeyoung Kim
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Pseudo-label-based semi-supervised learning (SSL) algorithms trained on a class-imbalanced set face two cascading challenges: 1) Classifiers tend to be biased towards majority classes, and 2) Biased pseudo-labels are used for training. It is difficult to appropriately re-balance the classifiers in SSL because the class distribution of an unlabeled set is often unknown and could be mismatched with that of a labeled set. We propose a novel class-imbalanced SSL algorithm called class-distribution-mismatch-aware debiasing (CDMAD). For each iteration of training, CDMAD first assesses the classifier's biased degree towards each class by calculating the logits on an image without any patterns (e.g., solid color image), which can be considered irrelevant to the training set. CDMAD then refines biased pseudo-labels of the base SSL algorithm by ensuring the classifier's neutrality. CDMAD uses these refined pseudo-labels during the training of the base SSL algorithm to improve the quality of the representations. In the test phase, CDMAD similarly refines biased class predictions on test samples. CDMAD can be seen as an extension of post-hoc logit adjustment to address a challenge of incorporating the unknown class distribution of the unlabeled set for re-balancing the biased classifier under class distribution mismatch. CDMAD ensures Fisher consistency for the balanced error. Extensive experiments verify the effectiveness of CDMAD.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [56]
标题:  Evaluating Perceptual Distances by Fitting Binomial Distributions to  Two-Alternative Forced Choice Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10390
作者:  Alexander Hepburn,  Raul Santos-Rodriguez,  Javier Portilla
备注:  
Abstract:The two-alternative forced choice (2AFC) experimental setup is popular in the visual perception literature, where practitioners aim to understand how human observers perceive distances within triplets that consist of a reference image and two distorted versions of that image. In the past, this had been conducted in controlled environments, with a tournament-style algorithm dictating which images are shown to each participant to rank the distorted images. Recently, crowd-sourced perceptual datasets have emerged, with no images shared between triplets, making ranking impossible. Evaluating perceptual distances using this data is non-trivial, relying on reducing the collection of judgements on a triplet to a binary decision -- which is suboptimal and prone to misleading conclusions. Instead, we statistically model the underlying decision-making process during 2AFC experiments using a binomial distribution. We use maximum likelihood estimation to fit a distribution to the perceptual judgements, conditioned on the perceptual distance to test and impose consistency and smoothness between our empirical estimates of the density. This way, we can evaluate a different number of judgements per triplet, and can calculate metrics such as likelihoods of judgements according to a set of distances -- key ingredients that neural network counterparts lack.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [57]
标题:  Coordination in Noncooperative Multiplayer Matrix Games via Reduced Rank  Correlated Equilibria
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10384
作者:  Jaehan Im,  Yue Yu,  David Fridovich-Keil,  Ufuk Topcu
备注:  
Abstract:Coordination in multiplayer games enables players to avoid the lose-lose outcome that often arises at Nash equilibria. However, designing a coordination mechanism typically requires the consideration of the joint actions of all players, which becomes intractable in large-scale games. We develop a novel coordination mechanism, termed reduced rank correlated equilibria, which reduces the number of joint actions to be considered and thereby mitigates computational complexity. The idea is to approximate the set of all joint actions with the actions used in a set of pre-computed Nash equilibria via a convex hull operation. In a game with n players and each player having m actions, the proposed mechanism reduces the number of joint actions considered from O(m^n) to O(mn). We demonstrate the application of the proposed mechanism to an air traffic queue management problem. Compared with the correlated equilibrium-a popular benchmark coordination mechanism-the proposed approach is capable of solving a queue management problem involving four thousand times more joint actions. In the meantime, it yields a solution that shows a 58.5% to 99.5% improvement in the fairness indicator and a 1.8% to 50.4% reduction in average delay cost compared to the Nash solution, which does not involve coordination.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [58]
标题:  Monotonic Representation of Numeric Properties in Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10381
作者:  Benjamin Heinzerling,  Kentaro Inui
备注:  
Abstract:Language models (LMs) can express factual knowledge involving numeric properties such as Karl Popper was born in 1902. However, how this information is encoded in the model's internal representations is not understood well. Here, we introduce a simple method for finding and editing representations of numeric properties such as an entity's birth year. Empirically, we find low-dimensional subspaces that encode numeric properties monotonically, in an interpretable and editable fashion. When editing representations along directions in these subspaces, LM output changes accordingly. For example, by patching activations along a "birthyear" direction we can make the LM express an increasingly late birthyear: Karl Popper was born in 1929, Karl Popper was born in 1957, Karl Popper was born in 1968. Property-encoding directions exist across several numeric properties in all models under consideration, suggesting the possibility that monotonic representation of numeric properties consistently emerges during LM pretraining. Code: this https URL
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [59]
标题:  BirdSet: A Multi-Task Benchmark for Classification in Avian Bioacoustics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10380
作者:  Lukas Rauch,  Raphael Schwinger,  Moritz Wirth,  René Heinrich,  Jonas Lange,  Stefan Kahl,  Bernhard Sick,  Sven Tomforde,  Christoph Scholz
备注:  Work in progress, to be submitted @DMLR next month
Abstract:Deep learning (DL) models have emerged as a powerful tool in avian bioacoustics to diagnose environmental health and biodiversity. However, inconsistencies in research pose notable challenges hindering progress in this domain. Reliable DL models need to analyze bird calls flexibly across various species and environments to fully harness the potential of bioacoustics in a cost-effective passive acoustic monitoring scenario. Data fragmentation and opacity across studies complicate a comprehensive evaluation of general model performance. To overcome these challenges, we present the BirdSet benchmark, a unified framework consolidating research efforts with a holistic approach for classifying bird vocalizations in avian bioacoustics. BirdSet harmonizes open-source bird recordings into a curated dataset collection. This unified approach provides an in-depth understanding of model performance and identifies potential shortcomings across different tasks. By establishing baseline results of current models, BirdSet aims to facilitate comparability, guide subsequent data collection, and increase accessibility for newcomers to avian bioacoustics.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [60]
标题:  Regret Minimization via Saddle Point Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10379
作者:  Johannes Kirschner,  Seyed Alireza Bakhtiari,  Kushagra Chandak,  Volodymyr Tkachuk,  Csaba Szepesvári
备注:  
Abstract:A long line of works characterizes the sample complexity of regret minimization in sequential decision-making by min-max programs. In the corresponding saddle-point game, the min-player optimizes the sampling distribution against an adversarial max-player that chooses confusing models leading to large regret. The most recent instantiation of this idea is the decision-estimation coefficient (DEC), which was shown to provide nearly tight lower and upper bounds on the worst-case expected regret in structured bandits and reinforcement learning. By re-parametrizing the offset DEC with the confidence radius and solving the corresponding min-max program, we derive an anytime variant of the Estimation-To-Decisions (E2D) algorithm. Importantly, the algorithm optimizes the exploration-exploitation trade-off online instead of via the analysis. Our formulation leads to a practical algorithm for finite model classes and linear feedback models. We further point out connections to the information ratio, decoupling coefficient and PAC-DEC, and numerically evaluate the performance of E2D on simple examples.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [61]
标题:  EXAMS-V: A Multi-Discipline Multilingual Multimodal Exam Benchmark for  Evaluating Vision Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10378
作者:  Rocktim Jyoti Das,  Simeon Emilov Hristov,  Haonan Li,  Dimitar Iliyanov Dimitrov,  Ivan Koychev,  Preslav Nakov
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce EXAMS-V, a new challenging multi-discipline multimodal multilingual exam benchmark for evaluating vision language models. It consists of 20,932 multiple-choice questions across 20 school disciplines covering natural science, social science, and other miscellaneous studies, e.g., religion, fine arts, business, etc. EXAMS-V includes a variety of multimodal features such as text, images, tables, figures, diagrams, maps, scientific symbols, and equations. The questions come in 11 languages from 7 language families. Unlike existing benchmarks, EXAMS-V is uniquely curated by gathering school exam questions from various countries, with a variety of education systems. This distinctive approach calls for intricate reasoning across diverse languages and relies on region-specific knowledge. Solving the problems in the dataset requires advanced perception and joint reasoning over the text and the visual content of the image. Our evaluation results demonstrate that this is a challenging dataset, which is difficult even for advanced vision-text models such as GPT-4V and Gemini; this underscores the inherent complexity of the dataset and its significance as a future benchmark.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [62]
标题:  PASTA: Towards Flexible and Efficient HDR Imaging Via Progressively  Aggregated Spatio-Temporal Aligment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10376
作者:  Xiaoning Liu,  Ao Li,  Zongwei Wu,  Yapeng Du,  Le Zhang,  Yulun Zhang,  Radu Timofte,  Ce Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:Leveraging Transformer attention has led to great advancements in HDR deghosting. However, the intricate nature of self-attention introduces practical challenges, as existing state-of-the-art methods often demand high-end GPUs or exhibit slow inference speeds, especially for high-resolution images like 2K. Striking an optimal balance between performance and latency remains a critical concern. In response, this work presents PASTA, a novel Progressively Aggregated Spatio-Temporal Alignment framework for HDR deghosting. Our approach achieves effectiveness and efficiency by harnessing hierarchical representation during feature distanglement. Through the utilization of diverse granularities within the hierarchical structure, our method substantially boosts computational speed and optimizes the HDR imaging workflow. In addition, we explore within-scale feature modeling with local and global attention, gradually merging and refining them in a coarse-to-fine fashion. Experimental results showcase PASTA's superiority over current SOTA methods in both visual quality and performance metrics, accompanied by a substantial 3-fold (x3) increase in inference speed.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [63]
标题:  Towards a general framework for improving the performance of classifiers  using XAI methods
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10373
作者:  Andrea Apicella,  Salvatore Giugliano,  Francesco Isgrò,  Roberto Prevete
备注:  
Abstract:Modern Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems, especially Deep Learning (DL) models, poses challenges in understanding their inner workings by AI researchers. eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) inspects internal mechanisms of AI models providing explanations about their decisions. While current XAI research predominantly concentrates on explaining AI systems, there is a growing interest in using XAI techniques to automatically improve the performance of AI systems themselves. This paper proposes a general framework for automatically improving the performance of pre-trained DL classifiers using XAI methods, avoiding the computational overhead associated with retraining complex models from scratch. In particular, we outline the possibility of two different learning strategies for implementing this architecture, which we will call auto-encoder-based and encoder-decoder-based, and discuss their key aspects.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [64]
标题:  Construction of all MDS and involutory MDS matrices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10372
作者:  Yogesh Kumar,  P.R.Mishra,  Susanta Samanta,  Kishan Chand Gupta,  Atul Gaur
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we propose two algorithms for a hybrid construction of all $n\times n$ MDS and involutory MDS matrices over a finite field $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$, respectively. The proposed algorithms effectively narrow down the search space to identify $(n-1) \times (n-1)$ MDS matrices, facilitating the generation of all $n \times n$ MDS and involutory MDS matrices over $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$. To the best of our knowledge, existing literature lacks methods for generating all $n\times n$ MDS and involutory MDS matrices over $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$. In our approach, we introduce a representative matrix form for generating all $n\times n$ MDS and involutory MDS matrices over $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$. The determination of these representative MDS matrices involves searching through all $(n-1)\times (n-1)$ MDS matrices over $\mathbb{F}_{p^m}$. Our contributions extend to proving that the count of all $3\times 3$ MDS matrices over $\mathbb{F}_{2^m}$ is precisely $(2^m-1)^5(2^m-2)(2^m-3)(2^{2m}-9\cdot 2^m+21)$. Furthermore, we explicitly provide the count of all $4\times 4$ MDS and involutory MDS matrices over $\mathbb{F}_{2^m}$ for $m=2, 3, 4$.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [65]
标题:  An Energy-Efficient Ensemble Approach for Mitigating Data Incompleteness  in IoT Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10371
作者:  Yousef AlShehri,  Lakshmish Ramaswamy
备注:  8 pages, 8 figures, 1 table, Accepted as a conference paper at IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING IN SMART SYSTEMS AND THE INTERNET OF THINGS (DCOSS-IoT 2024)
Abstract:Machine Learning (ML) is becoming increasingly important for IoT-based applications. However, the dynamic and ad-hoc nature of many IoT ecosystems poses unique challenges to the efficacy of ML algorithms. One such challenge is data incompleteness, which is manifested as missing sensor readings. Many factors, including sensor failures and/or network disruption, can cause data incompleteness. Furthermore, most IoT systems are severely power-constrained. It is important that we build IoT-based ML systems that are robust against data incompleteness while simultaneously being energy efficient. This paper presents an empirical study of SECOE - a recent technique for alleviating data incompleteness in IoT - with respect to its energy bottlenecks. Towards addressing the energy bottlenecks of SECOE, we propose ENAMLE - a proactive, energy-aware technique for mitigating the impact of concurrent missing data. ENAMLE is unique in the sense that it builds an energy-aware ensemble of sub-models, each trained with a subset of sensors chosen carefully based on their correlations. Furthermore, at inference time, ENAMLE adaptively alters the number of the ensemble of models based on the amount of missing data rate and the energy-accuracy trade-off. ENAMLE's design includes several novel mechanisms for minimizing energy consumption while maintaining accuracy. We present extensive experimental studies on two distinct datasets that demonstrate the energy efficiency of ENAMLE and its ability to alleviate sensor failures.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [66]
标题:  Hessian-free force-gradient integrators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10370
作者:  Kevin Schäfers,  Jacob Finkenrath,  Michael Günther,  Francesco Knechtli
备注:  27 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:We propose a new framework of Hessian-free force-gradient integrators that do not require the analytical expression of the force-gradient term based on the Hessian of the potential. Due to that the new class of decomposition algorithms for separable Hamiltonian systems with quadratic kinetic energy may be particularly useful when applied to Hamiltonian systems where an evaluation of the Hessian is significantly more expensive than an evaluation of its gradient, e.g. in molecular dynamics simulations of classical systems. Numerical experiments of an N-body problem, as well as applications to the molecular dynamics step in the Hybrid Monte Carlo (HMC) algorithm for lattice simulations of the Schwinger model and Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) verify these expectations.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)

**编号**: [67]
标题:  Open Stamped Parts Dataset
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10369
作者:  Sara Antiles,  Sachin S. Talathi
备注:  6 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
Abstract:We present the Open Stamped Parts Dataset (OSPD), featuring synthetic and real images of stamped metal sheets for auto manufacturing. The real part images, captured from 7 cameras, consist of 7,980 unlabeled images and 1,680 labeled images. In addition, we have compiled a defect dataset by overlaying synthetically generated masks on 10% of the holes. The synthetic dataset replicates the real manufacturing environment in terms of lighting and part placement relative to the cameras. The synthetic data includes 7,980 training images, 1,680 validation images and 1,680 test images, each with bounding box and segmentation mask annotations around all holes. 10% of the holes in the synthetic data mimic defects generated in the real image dataset. We trained a hole-detection model on the synthetic-OSPD, achieving a modified recall score of 67.2% and a precision of 94.4% . We anticipate researchers in the auto manufacturing and broader machine learning and computer vision communities using OSPD to advance the state of the art in defect detection of stamped holes in the metalsheet stamping process. The dataset is available for download at: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [68]
标题:  Testing MediaPipe Holistic for Linguistic Analysis of Nonmanual Markers  in Sign Languages
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10367
作者:  Anna Kuznetsova,  Vadim Kimmelman
备注:  
Abstract:Advances in Deep Learning have made possible reliable landmark tracking of human bodies and faces that can be used for a variety of tasks. We test a recent Computer Vision solution, MediaPipe Holistic (MPH), to find out if its tracking of the facial features is reliable enough for a linguistic analysis of data from sign languages, and compare it to an older solution (OpenFace, OF). We use an existing data set of sentences in Kazakh-Russian Sign Language and a newly created small data set of videos with head tilts and eyebrow movements. We find that MPH does not perform well enough for linguistic analysis of eyebrow movement -- but in a different way from OF, which is also performing poorly without correction. We reiterate a previous proposal to train additional correction models to overcome these limitations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [69]
标题:  Scalable Algorithms for Individual Preference Stable Clustering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10365
作者:  Ron Mosenzon,  Ali Vakilian
备注:  59 pages, 9 figures, submitted to AIStats2024
Abstract:In this paper, we study the individual preference (IP) stability, which is an notion capturing individual fairness and stability in clustering. Within this setting, a clustering is $\alpha$-IP stable when each data point's average distance to its cluster is no more than $\alpha$ times its average distance to any other cluster. In this paper, we study the natural local search algorithm for IP stable clustering. Our analysis confirms a $O(\log n)$-IP stability guarantee for this algorithm, where $n$ denotes the number of points in the input. Furthermore, by refining the local search approach, we show it runs in an almost linear time, $\tilde{O}(nk)$.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [70]
标题:  Unveiling Wash Trading in Popular NFT Markets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10361
作者:  Yuanzheng Niu,  Xiaoqi Li,  Hongli Peng,  Wenkai Li
备注:  This paper has been accepted by WWW 2024
Abstract:As emerging digital assets, NFTs are susceptible to anomalous trading behaviors due to the lack of stringent regulatory mechanisms, potentially causing economic losses. In this paper, we conduct the first systematic analysis of four non-fungible tokens (NFT) markets. Specifically, we analyze more than 25 million transactions within these markets, to explore the evolution of wash trade activities. Furthermore, we propose a heuristic algorithm that integrates the network characteristics of transactions with behavioral analysis, to detect wash trading activities in NFT markets. Our findings indicate that NFT markets with incentivized structures exhibit higher proportions of wash trading volume compared to those without incentives. Notably, the LooksRare and X2Y2 markets are detected with wash trading volume proportions as high as 94.5% and 84.2%, respectively.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [71]
标题:  ANIM: Accurate Neural Implicit Model for Human Reconstruction from a  single RGB-D image
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10357
作者:  Marco Pesavento,  Yuanlu Xu,  Nikolaos Sarafianos,  Robert Maier,  Ziyan Wang,  Chun-Han Yao,  Marco Volino,  Edmond Boyer,  Adrian Hilton,  Tony Tung
备注:  
Abstract:Recent progress in human shape learning, shows that neural implicit models are effective in generating 3D human surfaces from limited number of views, and even from a single RGB image. However, existing monocular approaches still struggle to recover fine geometric details such as face, hands or cloth wrinkles. They are also easily prone to depth ambiguities that result in distorted geometries along the camera optical axis. In this paper, we explore the benefits of incorporating depth observations in the reconstruction process by introducing ANIM, a novel method that reconstructs arbitrary 3D human shapes from single-view RGB-D images with an unprecedented level of accuracy. Our model learns geometric details from both multi-resolution pixel-aligned and voxel-aligned features to leverage depth information and enable spatial relationships, mitigating depth ambiguities. We further enhance the quality of the reconstructed shape by introducing a depth-supervision strategy, which improves the accuracy of the signed distance field estimation of points that lie on the reconstructed surface. Experiments demonstrate that ANIM outperforms state-of-the-art works that use RGB, surface normals, point cloud or RGB-D data as input. In addition, we introduce ANIM-Real, a new multi-modal dataset comprising high-quality scans paired with consumer-grade RGB-D camera, and our protocol to fine-tune ANIM, enabling high-quality reconstruction from real-world human capture.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [72]
标题:  Understanding Stress: A Web Interface for Mental Arithmetic Tasks in a  Trier Social Stress Test
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10356
作者:  Manjeet Yadav,  Nilesh Kumar Sahu
备注:  Accepted in Student Design Consortium of India HCI 2023
Abstract:Stress is a dynamic process that reflects the responses of the brain. Traditional methods for measuring stress are often time-consuming and susceptible to recall bias. To address this, we investigated changes in heart rate (HR) during the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST). Our study incorporated varying levels of complexity in mental arithmetic problems. Participants' HR increased during the Mental Arithmetic Task phase compared to baseline and resting stages, indicating that stress is reflected in HR.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [73]
标题:  Resolving Full-Wave Through-Wall Transmission Effects in Multi-Static  Synthetic Aperture Radar
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10354
作者:  Francis Watson,  Daniel Andre,  William Robert Breckon Lionheart
备注:  
Abstract:Through-wall synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imaging is of significant interest for security purposes, in particular when using multi-static SAR systems consisting of multiple distributed radar transmitters and receivers to improve resolution and the ability to recognise objects. Yet there is a significant challenge in forming focused, useful images due to multiple scattering effects through walls, whereas standard SAR imaging has an inherent single scattering assumption. This may be exacerbated with multi-static collections, since different scattering events will be observed from each angle and the data may not coherently combine well in a naive manner. To overcome this, we propose an image formation method which resolves full-wave effects through an approximately known wall or other arbitrary obstacle, which itself has some unknown "nuisance" parameters that are determined as part of the reconstruction to provide well focused images. The method is more flexible and realistic than existing methods which treat a single wall as a flat layered medium, whilst being significantly computationally cheaper than full-wave methods, strongly motivated by practical considerations for through-wall SAR.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [74]
标题:  SimPB: A Single Model for 2D and 3D Object Detection from Multiple  Cameras
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10353
作者:  Yingqi Tang,  Zhaotie Meng,  Guoliang Chen,  Erkang Cheng
备注:  
Abstract:The field of autonomous driving has attracted considerable interest in approaches that directly infer 3D objects in the Bird's Eye View (BEV) from multiple cameras. Some attempts have also explored utilizing 2D detectors from single images to enhance the performance of 3D detection. However, these approaches rely on a two-stage process with separate detectors, where the 2D detection results are utilized only once for token selection or query initialization. In this paper, we present a single model termed SimPB, which simultaneously detects 2D objects in the perspective view and 3D objects in the BEV space from multiple cameras. To achieve this, we introduce a hybrid decoder consisting of several multi-view 2D decoder layers and several 3D decoder layers, specifically designed for their respective detection tasks. A Dynamic Query Allocation module and an Adaptive Query Aggregation module are proposed to continuously update and refine the interaction between 2D and 3D results, in a cyclic 3D-2D-3D manner. Additionally, Query-group Attention is utilized to strengthen the interaction among 2D queries within each camera group. In the experiments, we evaluate our method on the nuScenes dataset and demonstrate promising results for both 2D and 3D detection tasks. Our code is available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [75]
标题:  TriSum: Learning Summarization Ability from Large Language Models with  Structured Rationale
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10351
作者:  Pengcheng Jiang,  Cao Xiao,  Zifeng Wang,  Parminder Bhatia,  Jimeng Sun,  Jiawei Han
备注:  NAACL'24
Abstract:The advent of large language models (LLMs) has significantly advanced natural language processing tasks like text summarization. However, their large size and computational demands, coupled with privacy concerns in data transmission, limit their use in resource-constrained and privacy-centric settings. To overcome this, we introduce TriSum, a framework for distilling LLMs' text summarization abilities into a compact, local model. Initially, LLMs extract a set of aspect-triple rationales and summaries, which are refined using a dual-scoring method for quality. Next, a smaller local model is trained with these tasks, employing a curriculum learning strategy that evolves from simple to complex tasks. Our method enhances local model performance on various benchmarks (CNN/DailyMail, XSum, and ClinicalTrial), outperforming baselines by 4.5%, 8.5%, and 7.4%, respectively. It also improves interpretability by providing insights into the summarization rationale.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [76]
标题:  ParaPoint: Learning Global Free-Boundary Surface Parameterization of 3D  Point Clouds
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10349
作者:  Qijian Zhang,  Junhui Hou,  Ying He
备注:  
Abstract:Surface parameterization is a fundamental geometry processing problem with rich downstream applications. Traditional approaches are designed to operate on well-behaved mesh models with high-quality triangulations that are laboriously produced by specialized 3D modelers, and thus unable to meet the processing demand for the current explosion of ordinary 3D data. In this paper, we seek to perform UV unwrapping on unstructured 3D point clouds. Technically, we propose ParaPoint, an unsupervised neural learning pipeline for achieving global free-boundary surface parameterization by building point-wise mappings between given 3D points and 2D UV coordinates with adaptively deformed boundaries. We ingeniously construct several geometrically meaningful sub-networks with specific functionalities, and assemble them into a bi-directional cycle mapping framework. We also design effective loss functions and auxiliary differential geometric constraints for the optimization of the neural mapping process. To the best of our knowledge, this work makes the first attempt to investigate neural point cloud parameterization that pursues both global mappings and free boundaries. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and inspiring potential of our proposed learning paradigm. The code will be publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [77]
标题:  Denoising Task Difficulty-based Curriculum for Training Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10348
作者:  Jin-Young Kim,  Hyojun Go,  Soonwoo Kwon,  Hyun-Gyoon Kim
备注:  22 pages, 8 figures, 5 tables
Abstract:Diffusion-based generative models have emerged as powerful tools in the realm of generative modeling. Despite extensive research on denoising across various timesteps and noise levels, a conflict persists regarding the relative difficulties of the denoising tasks. While various studies argue that lower timesteps present more challenging tasks, others contend that higher timesteps are more difficult. To address this conflict, our study undertakes a comprehensive examination of task difficulties, focusing on convergence behavior and changes in relative entropy between consecutive probability distributions across timesteps. Our observational study reveals that denoising at earlier timesteps poses challenges characterized by slower convergence and higher relative entropy, indicating increased task difficulty at these lower timesteps. Building on these observations, we introduce an easy-to-hard learning scheme, drawing from curriculum learning, to enhance the training process of diffusion models. By organizing timesteps or noise levels into clusters and training models with descending orders of difficulty, we facilitate an order-aware training regime, progressing from easier to harder denoising tasks, thereby deviating from the conventional approach of training diffusion models simultaneously across all timesteps. Our approach leads to improved performance and faster convergence by leveraging the benefits of curriculum learning, while maintaining orthogonality with existing improvements in diffusion training techniques. We validate these advantages through comprehensive experiments in image generation tasks, including unconditional, class-conditional, and text-to-image generation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [78]
标题:  SCILLA: SurfaCe Implicit Learning for Large Urban Area, a volumetric  hybrid solution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10344
作者:  Hala Djeghim,  Nathan Piasco,  Moussab Bennehar,  Luis Roldão,  Dzmitry Tsishkou,  Désiré Sidibé
备注:  
Abstract:Neural implicit surface representation methods have recently shown impressive 3D reconstruction results. However, existing solutions struggle to reconstruct urban outdoor scenes due to their large, unbounded, and highly detailed nature. Hence, to achieve accurate reconstructions, additional supervision data such as LiDAR, strong geometric priors, and long training times are required. To tackle such issues, we present SCILLA, a new hybrid implicit surface learning method to reconstruct large driving scenes from 2D images. SCILLA's hybrid architecture models two separate implicit fields: one for the volumetric density and another for the signed distance to the surface. To accurately represent urban outdoor scenarios, we introduce a novel volume-rendering strategy that relies on self-supervised probabilistic density estimation to sample points near the surface and transition progressively from volumetric to surface representation. Our solution permits a proper and fast initialization of the signed distance field without relying on any geometric prior on the scene, compared to concurrent methods. By conducting extensive experiments on four outdoor driving datasets, we show that SCILLA can learn an accurate and detailed 3D surface scene representation in various urban scenarios while being two times faster to train compared to previous state-of-the-art solutions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [79]
标题:  Cooperative Jamming for Physical Layer Security Enhancement Using Deep  Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10342
作者:  Sayed Amir Hoseini,  Faycal Bouhafs,  Neda Aboutorab,  Parastoo Sadeghi,  Frank den Hartog
备注:  
Abstract:Wireless data communications are always facing the risk of eavesdropping and interception. Conventional protection solutions which are based on encryption may not always be practical as is the case for wireless IoT networks or may soon become ineffective against quantum computers. In this regard, Physical Layer Security (PLS) presents a promising approach to secure wireless communications through the exploitation of the physical properties of the wireless channel. Cooperative Friendly Jamming (CFJ) is among the PLS techniques that have received attention in recent years. However, finding an optimal transmit power allocation that results in the highest secrecy is a complex problem that becomes more difficult to address as the size of the wireless network increases. In this paper, we propose an optimization approach to achieve CFJ in large Wi-Fi networks by using a Reinforcement Learning Algorithm. Obtained results show that our optimization approach offers better secrecy results and becomes more effective as the network size and the density of Wi-Fi access points increase.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [80]
标题:  Thermal-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from an Infrared Camera
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10340
作者:  Tianxiang Ye,  Qi Wu,  Junyuan Deng,  Guoqing Liu,  Liu Liu,  Songpengcheng Xia,  Liang Pang,  Wenxian Yu,  Ling Pei
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have demonstrated significant potential in encoding highly-detailed 3D geometry and environmental appearance, positioning themselves as a promising alternative to traditional explicit representation for 3D scene reconstruction. However, the predominant reliance on RGB imaging presupposes ideal lighting conditions: a premise frequently unmet in robotic applications plagued by poor lighting or visual obstructions. This limitation overlooks the capabilities of infrared (IR) cameras, which excel in low-light detection and present a robust alternative under such adverse scenarios. To tackle these issues, we introduce Thermal-NeRF, the first method that estimates a volumetric scene representation in the form of a NeRF solely from IR imaging. By leveraging a thermal mapping and structural thermal constraint derived from the thermal characteristics of IR imaging, our method showcasing unparalleled proficiency in recovering NeRFs in visually degraded scenes where RGB-based methods fall short. We conduct extensive experiments to demonstrate that Thermal-NeRF can achieve superior quality compared to existing methods. Furthermore, we contribute a dataset for IR-based NeRF applications, paving the way for future research in IR NeRF reconstruction.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [81]
标题:  Generation is better than Modification: Combating High Class Homophily  Variance in Graph Anomaly Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10339
作者:  Rui Zhang,  Dawei Cheng,  Xin Liu,  Jie Yang,  Yi Ouyang,  Xian Wu,  Yefeng Zheng
备注:  
Abstract:Graph-based anomaly detection is currently an important research topic in the field of graph neural networks (GNNs). We find that in graph anomaly detection, the homophily distribution differences between different classes are significantly greater than those in homophilic and heterophilic graphs. For the first time, we introduce a new metric called Class Homophily Variance, which quantitatively describes this phenomenon. To mitigate its impact, we propose a novel GNN model named Homophily Edge Generation Graph Neural Network (HedGe). Previous works typically focused on pruning, selecting or connecting on original relationships, and we refer to these methods as modifications. Different from these works, our method emphasizes generating new relationships with low class homophily variance, using the original relationships as an auxiliary. HedGe samples homophily adjacency matrices from scratch using a self-attention mechanism, and leverages nodes that are relevant in the feature space but not directly connected in the original graph. Additionally, we modify the loss function to punish the generation of unnecessary heterophilic edges by the model. Extensive comparison experiments demonstrate that HedGe achieved the best performance across multiple benchmark datasets, including anomaly detection and edgeless node classification. The proposed model also improves the robustness under the novel Heterophily Attack with increased class homophily variance on other graph classification tasks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [82]
标题:  Investigating grammatical abstraction in language models using few-shot  learning of novel noun gender
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10338
作者:  Priyanka Sukumaran,  Conor Houghton,  Nina Kazanina
备注:  EACL 2024; Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics
Abstract:Humans can learn a new word and infer its grammatical properties from very few examples. They have an abstract notion of linguistic properties like grammatical gender and agreement rules that can be applied to novel syntactic contexts and words. Drawing inspiration from psycholinguistics, we conduct a noun learning experiment to assess whether an LSTM and a decoder-only transformer can achieve human-like abstraction of grammatical gender in French. Language models were tasked with learning the gender of a novel noun embedding from a few examples in one grammatical agreement context and predicting agreement in another, unseen context. We find that both language models effectively generalise novel noun gender from one to two learning examples and apply the learnt gender across agreement contexts, albeit with a bias for the masculine gender category. Importantly, the few-shot updates were only applied to the embedding layers, demonstrating that models encode sufficient gender information within the word embedding space. While the generalisation behaviour of models suggests that they represent grammatical gender as an abstract category, like humans, further work is needed to explore the details of how exactly this is implemented. For a comparative perspective with human behaviour, we conducted an analogous one-shot novel noun gender learning experiment, which revealed that native French speakers, like language models, also exhibited a masculine gender bias and are not excellent one-shot learners either.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [83]
标题:  How Powerful Potential of Attention on Image Restoration?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10336
作者:  Cong Wang,  Jinshan Pan,  Yeying Jin,  Liyan Wang,  Wei Wang,  Gang Fu,  Wenqi Ren,  Xiaochun Cao
备注:  
Abstract:Transformers have demonstrated their effectiveness in image restoration tasks. Existing Transformer architectures typically comprise two essential components: multi-head self-attention and feed-forward network (FFN). The former captures long-range pixel dependencies, while the latter enables the model to learn complex patterns and relationships in the data. Previous studies have demonstrated that FFNs are key-value memories \cite{geva2020transformer}, which are vital in modern Transformer architectures. In this paper, we conduct an empirical study to explore the potential of attention mechanisms without using FFN and provide novel structures to demonstrate that removing FFN is flexible for image restoration. Specifically, we propose Continuous Scaling Attention (\textbf{CSAttn}), a method that computes attention continuously in three stages without using FFN. To achieve competitive performance, we propose a series of key components within the attention. Our designs provide a closer look at the attention mechanism and reveal that some simple operations can significantly affect the model performance. We apply our \textbf{CSAttn} to several image restoration tasks and show that our model can outperform CNN-based and Transformer-based image restoration approaches.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [84]
标题:  NECA: Neural Customizable Human Avatar
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10335
作者:  Junjin Xiao,  Qing Zhang,  Zhan Xu,  Wei-Shi Zheng
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:Human avatar has become a novel type of 3D asset with various applications. Ideally, a human avatar should be fully customizable to accommodate different settings and environments. In this work, we introduce NECA, an approach capable of learning versatile human representation from monocular or sparse-view videos, enabling granular customization across aspects such as pose, shadow, shape, lighting and texture. The core of our approach is to represent humans in complementary dual spaces and predict disentangled neural fields of geometry, albedo, shadow, as well as an external lighting, from which we are able to derive realistic rendering with high-frequency details via volumetric rendering. Extensive experiments demonstrate the advantage of our method over the state-of-the-art methods in photorealistic rendering, as well as various editing tasks such as novel pose synthesis and relighting. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [85]
标题:  A Conjecture for ATP Research
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10334
作者:  Wolfgang Bibel
备注:  
Abstract:This note generalizes factorization for formulas with multiplicities and conjectures that the connection method along with this feature is computationally as powerful as resolution, also seen from a complexity point of view.
Subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [86]
标题:  GreedyML: A Parallel Algorithm for Maximizing Submodular Functions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10332
作者:  Shivaram Gopal,  S M Ferdous,  Hemanta K. Maji,  Alex Pothen
备注:  22 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:We describe a parallel approximation algorithm for maximizing monotone submodular functions subject to hereditary constraints on distributed memory multiprocessors. Our work is motivated by the need to solve submodular optimization problems on massive data sets, for practical applications in areas such as data summarization, machine learning, and graph sparsification. Our work builds on the randomized distributed RandGreedI algorithm, proposed by Barbosa, Ene, Nguyen, and Ward (2015). This algorithm computes a distributed solution by randomly partitioning the data among all the processors and then employing a single accumulation step in which all processors send their partial solutions to one processor. However, for large problems, the accumulation step could exceed the memory available on a processor, and the processor which performs the accumulation could become a computational bottleneck. Here, we propose a generalization of the RandGreedI algorithm that employs multiple accumulation steps to reduce the memory required. We analyze the approximation ratio and the time complexity of the algorithm (in the BSP model). We also evaluate the new GreedyML algorithm on three classes of problems, and report results from massive data sets with millions of elements. The results show that the GreedyML algorithm can solve problems where the sequential Greedy and distributed RandGreedI algorithms fail due to memory constraints. For certain computationally intensive problems, the GreedyML algorithm can be faster than the RandGreedI algorithm. The observed approximation quality of the solutions computed by the GreedyML algorithm closely matches those obtained by the RandGreedI algorithm on these problems.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [87]
标题:  Towards Non-Adversarial Algorithmic Recourse
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10330
作者:  Tobias Leemann,  Martin Pawelczyk,  Bardh Prenkaj,  Gjergji Kasneci
备注:  
Abstract:The streams of research on adversarial examples and counterfactual explanations have largely been growing independently. This has led to several recent works trying to elucidate their similarities and differences. Most prominently, it has been argued that adversarial examples, as opposed to counterfactual explanations, have a unique characteristic in that they lead to a misclassification compared to the ground truth. However, the computational goals and methodologies employed in existing counterfactual explanation and adversarial example generation methods often lack alignment with this requirement. Using formal definitions of adversarial examples and counterfactual explanations, we introduce non-adversarial algorithmic recourse and outline why in high-stakes situations, it is imperative to obtain counterfactual explanations that do not exhibit adversarial characteristics. We subsequently investigate how different components in the objective functions, e.g., the machine learning model or cost function used to measure distance, determine whether the outcome can be considered an adversarial example or not. Our experiments on common datasets highlight that these design choices are often more critical in deciding whether recourse is non-adversarial than whether recourse or attack algorithms are used. Furthermore, we show that choosing a robust and accurate machine learning model results in less adversarial recourse desired in practice.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [88]
标题:  The cool and the cruel: separating hard parts of LWE secrets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10328
作者:  Niklas Nolte,  Mohamed Malhou,  Emily Wenger,  Samuel Stevens,  Cathy Li,  François Charton,  Kristin Lauter
备注:  
Abstract:Sparse binary LWE secrets are under consideration for standardization for Homomorphic Encryption and its applications to private computation. Known attacks on sparse binary LWE secrets include the sparse dual attack and the hybrid sparse dual-meet in the middle attack which requires significant memory. In this paper, we provide a new statistical attack with low memory requirement. The attack relies on some initial lattice reduction. The key observation is that, after lattice reduction is applied to the rows of a q-ary-like embedded random matrix $\mathbf A$, the entries with high variance are concentrated in the early columns of the extracted matrix. This allows us to separate out the "hard part" of the LWE secret. We can first solve the sub-problem of finding the "cruel" bits of the secret in the early columns, and then find the remaining "cool" bits in linear time. We use statistical techniques to distinguish distributions to identify both the cruel and the cool bits of the secret. We provide concrete attack timings for recovering secrets in dimensions $n=256$, $512$, and $768$. For the lattice reduction stage, we leverage recent improvements in lattice reduction (e.g. flatter) applied in parallel. We also apply our new attack in the RLWE setting for $2$-power cyclotomic rings, showing that these RLWE instances are much more vulnerable to this attack than LWE.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [89]
标题:  Unsupervised Threat Hunting using Continuous Bag-of-Terms-and-Time  (CBoTT)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10327
作者:  Varol Kayhan,  Shivendu Shivendu,  Rouzbeh Behnia,  Clinton Daniel,  Manish Agrawal
备注:  
Abstract:Threat hunting is sifting through system logs to detect malicious activities that might have bypassed existing security measures. It can be performed in several ways, one of which is based on detecting anomalies. We propose an unsupervised framework, called continuous bag-of-terms-and-time (CBoTT), and publish its application programming interface (API) to help researchers and cybersecurity analysts perform anomaly-based threat hunting among SIEM logs geared toward process auditing on endpoint devices. Analyses show that our framework consistently outperforms benchmark approaches. When logs are sorted by likelihood of being an anomaly (from most likely to least), our approach identifies anomalies at higher percentiles (between 1.82-6.46) while benchmark approaches identify the same anomalies at lower percentiles (between 3.25-80.92). This framework can be used by other researchers to conduct benchmark analyses and cybersecurity analysts to find anomalies in SIEM logs.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [90]
标题:  CDGP: Automatic Cloze Distractor Generation based on Pre-trained  Language Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10326
作者:  Shang-Hsuan Chiang,  Ssu-Cheng Wang,  Yao-Chung Fan
备注:  Findings of short paper, EMNLP 2022
Abstract:Manually designing cloze test consumes enormous time and efforts. The major challenge lies in wrong option (distractor) selection. Having carefully-design distractors improves the effectiveness of learner ability assessment. As a result, the idea of automatically generating cloze distractor is motivated. In this paper, we investigate cloze distractor generation by exploring the employment of pre-trained language models (PLMs) as an alternative for candidate distractor generation. Experiments show that the PLM-enhanced model brings a substantial performance improvement. Our best performing model advances the state-of-the-art result from 14.94 to 34.17 (NDCG@10 score). Our code and dataset is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [91]
标题:  NetBench: A Large-Scale and Comprehensive Network Traffic Benchmark  Dataset for Foundation Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10319
作者:  Chen Qian,  Xiaochang Li,  Qineng Wang,  Gang Zhou,  Huajie Shao
备注:  
Abstract:In computer networking, network traffic refers to the amount of data transmitted in the form of packets between internetworked computers or systems. Monitoring and analyzing network traffic is crucial for ensuring the performance, security, and reliability of a network. However, a significant challenge in network traffic analysis is to process diverse data packets including both ciphertext and plaintext. While many methods have been adopted to analyze network traffic, they often rely on different datasets for performance evaluation. This inconsistency results in substantial manual data processing efforts and unfair comparisons. Moreover, some data processing methods may cause data leakage due to improper separation of training and test data. To address these issues, we introduce NetBench, a large-scale and comprehensive benchmark dataset for assessing machine learning models, especially foundation models, in both traffic classification and generation tasks. NetBench is built upon seven publicly available datasets and encompasses a broad spectrum of 20 tasks, including 15 classification tasks and 5 generation tasks. Furthermore, we evaluate eight State-Of-The-Art (SOTA) classification models and two generative models using our benchmark. The results show that foundation models significantly outperform the traditional deep learning methods in traffic classification. We believe NetBench will facilitate fair comparisons among various approaches and advance the development of foundation models for network traffic. Our benchmark is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [92]
标题:  Anytime Neural Architecture Search on Tabular Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10318
作者:  Naili Xing,  Shaofeng Cai,  Zhaojing Luo,  BengChin Ooi,  Jian Pei
备注:  
Abstract:The increasing demand for tabular data analysis calls for transitioning from manual architecture design to Neural Architecture Search (NAS). This transition demands an efficient and responsive anytime NAS approach that is capable of returning current optimal architectures within any given time budget while progressively enhancing architecture quality with increased budget allocation. However, the area of research on Anytime NAS for tabular data remains unexplored. To this end, we introduce ATLAS, the first anytime NAS approach tailored for tabular data. ATLAS introduces a novel two-phase filtering-and-refinement optimization scheme with joint optimization, combining the strengths of both paradigms of training-free and training-based architecture evaluation. Specifically, in the filtering phase, ATLAS employs a new zero-cost proxy specifically designed for tabular data to efficiently estimate the performance of candidate architectures, thereby obtaining a set of promising architectures. Subsequently, in the refinement phase, ATLAS leverages a fixed-budget search algorithm to schedule the training of the promising candidates, so as to accurately identify the optimal architecture. To jointly optimize the two phases for anytime NAS, we also devise a budget-aware coordinator that delivers high NAS performance within constraints. Experimental evaluations demonstrate that our ATLAS can obtain a good-performing architecture within any predefined time budget and return better architectures as and when a new time budget is made available. Overall, it reduces the search time on tabular data by up to 82.75x compared to existing NAS approaches.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [93]
标题:  Hierarchical Provision of Distribution Grid Flexibility with Online  Feedback Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10315
作者:  Florian Klein-Helmkamp,  Irina Zettl,  Florian Schmidtke,  Lukas Ortmann,  Andreas Ulbig
备注:  
Abstract:Utilizing distribution grid flexibility for ancillary services requires the coordination and dispatch of requested active and reactive power to a large number of distributed energy resources in underlying grid layers. This paper presents an approach to hierarchically dispatch flexibility requests based on Online Feedback Optimization (OFO). We implement a framework of individual controllers coordinating actors, contributing to flexibility provision, to track a requested operating point at the interface between grid layers. The framework is evaluated in terms of performance during coordination and possible interaction between individual controllers, both central and distributed. Results show high reliability and robustness of the OFO controllers as well as an efficient dispatch of active and reactive power. Its computational efficiency and capabilities in set point tracking during online grid operation are making OFO a promising approach to the flexibility dispatch problem.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [94]
标题:  Interactive Trimming against Evasive Online Data Manipulation Attacks: A  Game-Theoretic Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10313
作者:  Yue Fu,  Qingqing Ye,  Rong Du,  Haibo Hu
备注:  This manuscript is accepted by ICDE '24
Abstract:With the exponential growth of data and its crucial impact on our lives and decision-making, the integrity of data has become a significant concern. Malicious data poisoning attacks, where false values are injected into the data, can disrupt machine learning processes and lead to severe consequences. To mitigate these attacks, distance-based defenses, such as trimming, have been proposed, but they can be easily evaded by white-box attackers. The evasiveness and effectiveness of poisoning attack strategies are two sides of the same coin, making game theory a promising approach. However, existing game-theoretical models often overlook the complexities of online data poisoning attacks, where strategies must adapt to the dynamic process of data collection. In this paper, we present an interactive game-theoretical model to defend online data manipulation attacks using the trimming strategy. Our model accommodates a complete strategy space, making it applicable to strong evasive and colluding adversaries. Leveraging the principle of least action and the Euler-Lagrange equation from theoretical physics, we derive an analytical model for the game-theoretic process. To demonstrate its practical usage, we present a case study in a privacy-preserving data collection system under local differential privacy where a non-deterministic utility function is adopted. Two strategies are devised from this analytical model, namely, Tit-for-tat and Elastic. We conduct extensive experiments on real-world datasets, which showcase the effectiveness and accuracy of these two strategies.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [95]
标题:  Designing User-Centered Simulations of Leadership Situations for Cave  Automatic Virtual Environments: Development and Usability Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10312
作者:  Francesco Vona,  Miladin Ćeranić,  Irma Rybnikova,  Jan-Niklas Voigt-Antons
备注:  
Abstract:Given that experience is a pivotal dimension of learning processes in the field of leadership, the ongoing and unresolved issue is how such experiential moments could be provided when developing leadership skills and competencies. Role-plays and business simulations are widely used in this context as they are said to teach relevant social leadership skills, like those required by everyday communication to followers, by decision-making on compensation, evaluating performance, dealing with conflicts, or terminating contracts. However, the effectiveness of simulations can highly vary depending on the counterpart's ability to act in the given scenarios. In our project, we deal with how immersive media could create experiential learning based on simulations for leadership development. In recent years different variations of extended reality got significant technological improvements. Head-mounted displays are an easy and cost-efficient way to present high-resolution virtual environments. For groups of people that are part of an immersive experience, cave automatic virtual environments offer an excellent trade-off between actual exchange with other humans and interaction with virtual content simultaneously. The work presented is based on developing a user-centered simulation of leadership situations for cave automatic virtual environments and includes the results of a first usability study. In the future, the presented results can help to support the development and evaluation of simulated situations for cave automatic virtual environments with an emphasis on leadership-related scenarios.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [96]
标题:  A canonical tree decomposition for order types, and some applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10311
作者:  Mathilde Bouvel,  Valentin Féray,  Xavier Goaoc,  Florent Koechlin
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce and study a notion of decomposition of planar point sets (or rather of their chirotopes) as trees decorated by smaller chirotopes. This decomposition is based on the concept of mutually avoiding sets (which we rephrase as \emph{modules}), and adapts in some sense the modular decomposition of graphs in the world of chirotopes. The associated tree always exists and is unique up to some appropriate constraints. We also show how to compute the number of triangulations of a chirotope efficiently, starting from its tree and the (weighted) numbers of triangulations of its parts.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [97]
标题:  Scaling Game-Theoretic Security Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10310
作者:  Sophie Rain,  Lea Salome Brugger,  Anja Petkovic Komel,  Laura Kovacs,  Michael Rawson
备注:  
Abstract:We present the CheckMate tool for automated verification of game-theoretic security properties, with application to blockchain protocols. CheckMate applies automated reasoning techniques to determine whether a game-theoretic protocol model is game-theoretically secure, that is, Byzantine fault tolerant and incentive compatible. We describe CheckMate's input format and its various components, modes, and output. CheckMate is evaluated on 14 benchmarks, including models of decentralized protocols, board games, and game-theoretic examples.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [98]
标题:  Revolutionizing Packaging: A Robotic Bagging Pipeline with  Constraint-aware Structure-of-Interest Planning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10309
作者:  Jiaming Qi,  Peng Zhou,  Pai Zheng,  Hongmin Wu,  Chenguang Yang,  David Navarro-Alarcon,  Jia Pan
备注:  
Abstract:Bagging operations, common in packaging and assisted living applications, are challenging due to a bag's complex deformable properties. To address this, we develop a robotic system for automated bagging tasks using an adaptive structure-of-interest (SOI) manipulation approach. Our method relies on real-time visual feedback to dynamically adjust manipulation without requiring prior knowledge of bag materials or dynamics. We present a robust pipeline featuring state estimation for SOIs using Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM), SOI generation via optimization-based bagging techniques, SOI motion planning with Constrained Bidirectional Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (CBiRRT), and dual-arm manipulation coordinated by Model Predictive Control (MPC). Experiments demonstrate the system's ability to achieve precise, stable bagging of various objects using adaptive coordination of the manipulators. The proposed framework advances the capability of dual-arm robots to perform more sophisticated automation of common tasks involving interactions with deformable objects.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [99]
标题:  Supplement Matrix and a Practical Method for Computing Eigenvalues of a  Dual Hermitian Matrix
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10308
作者:  Liqun Qi,  Chunfeng Cui
备注:  
Abstract:We study dual number symmetric matrices, dual complex Hermitian matrices and dual quaternion Hermitian matrices in a unified frame of dual Hermitian matrices. Suppose we have a ring, which can be the real field, the complex field, or the quaternion ring. Then an $n \times n$ dual Hermitian matrix has $n$ dual number eigenvalues. We define supplement matrices for a dual Hermitian matrix. Supplement matrices are Hermitian matrices in the original ring. The standard parts of the eigenvalues of that dual Hermitian matrix are the eigenvalues of the standard part Hermitian matrix in the original ring, while the dual parts of the eigenvalues of that dual Hermitian matrix are the eigenvalues of those {supplement} matrices. Hence, by apply any practical method for computing eigenvalues of Hermitian matrices in the original ring, we have a practical method for computing eigenvalues of a dual Hermitian matrix. We call this method the supplement matrix method. Applications to low rank approximation and generalized inverses of dual matrices, dual least squares problem and formation control are discussed. Numerical experiments are reported.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)

**编号**: [100]
标题:  Chernoff Information as a Privacy Constraint for Adversarial  Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10307
作者:  Ayşe Ünsal,  Melek Önen
备注:  
Abstract:This work studies a privacy metric based on Chernoff information, \textit{Chernoff differential privacy}, due to its significance in characterization of classifier performance. Adversarial classification, as any other classification problem is built around minimization of the (average or correct detection) probability of error in deciding on either of the classes in the case of binary classification. Unlike the classical hypothesis testing problem, where the false alarm and mis-detection probabilities are handled separately resulting in an asymmetric behavior of the best error exponent, in this work, we focus on the Bayesian setting and characterize the relationship between the best error exponent of the average error probability and $\varepsilon-$differential privacy. Accordingly, we re-derive Chernoff differential privacy in terms of $\varepsilon-$differential privacy using the Radon-Nikodym derivative and show that it satisfies the composition property. Subsequently, we present numerical evaluation results, which demonstrates that Chernoff information outperforms Kullback-Leibler divergence as a function of the privacy parameter $\varepsilon$, the impact of the adversary's attack and global sensitivity for the problem of adversarial classification in Laplace mechanisms.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [101]
标题:  KIF: A Framework for Virtual Integration of Heterogeneous Knowledge  Bases using Wikidata
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10304
作者:  Guilherme Lima,  Marcelo Machado,  Elton Soares,  Sandro R. Fiorini,  Raphael Thiago,  Leonardo G. Azevedo,  Viviane T. da Silva,  Renato Cerqueira
备注:  
Abstract:We present a knowledge integration framework (called KIF) that uses Wikidata as a lingua franca to integrate heterogeneous knowledge bases. These can be triplestores, relational databases, CSV files, etc., which may or may not use the Wikidata dialect of RDF. KIF leverages Wikidata's data model and vocabulary plus user-defined mappings to expose a unified view of the integrated bases while keeping track of the context and provenance of their statements. The result is a virtual knowledge base which behaves like an "extended Wikidata" and which can be queried either through an efficient filter interface or using SPARQL. We present the design and implementation of KIF, discuss how we have used it to solve a real integration problem in the domain of chemistry (involving Wikidata, PubChem, and IBM CIRCA), and present experimental results on the performance and overhead of KIF.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [102]
标题:  An Investigation of the Factors Influencing Evolutionary Dynamics in the  Joint Evolution of Robot Body and Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10303
作者:  Léni K. Le Goff,  Edgar Buchanan,  Emma Hart
备注:  9 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:In evolutionary robotics, jointly optimising the design and the controller of robots is a challenging task due to the huge complexity of the solution space formed by the possible combinations of body and controller. We focus on the evolution of robots that can be physically created rather than just simulated, in a rich morphological space that includes a voxel-based chassis, wheels, legs and sensors. On the one hand, this space offers a high degree of liberty in the range of robots that can be produced, while on the other hand introduces a complexity rarely dealt with in previous works relating to matching controllers to designs and in evolving closed-loop control. This is usually addressed by augmenting evolution with a learning algorithm to refine controllers. Although several frameworks exist, few have studied the role of the \textit{evolutionary dynamics} of the intertwined `evolution+learning' processes in realising high-performing robots. We conduct an in-depth study of the factors that influence these dynamics, specifically: synchronous vs asynchronous evolution; the mechanism for replacing parents with offspring, and rewarding goal-based fitness vs novelty via selection. Results show that asynchronicity combined with goal-based selection and a `replace worst' strategy results in the highest performance.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [103]
标题:  Uni-SMART: Universal Science Multimodal Analysis and Research  Transformer
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10301
作者:  Hengxing Cai,  Xiaochen Cai,  Shuwen Yang,  Jiankun Wang,  Lin Yao,  Zhifeng Gao,  Junhan Chang,  Sihang Li,  Mingjun Xu,  Changxin Wang,  Hongshuai Wang,  Yongge Li,  Mujie Lin,  Yaqi Li,  Yuqi Yin,  Linfeng Zhang,  Guolin Ke
备注:  
Abstract:In scientific research and its application, scientific literature analysis is crucial as it allows researchers to build on the work of others. However, the fast growth of scientific knowledge has led to a massive increase in scholarly articles, making in-depth literature analysis increasingly challenging and time-consuming. The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) has offered a new way to address this challenge. Known for their strong abilities in summarizing texts, LLMs are seen as a potential tool to improve the analysis of scientific literature. However, existing LLMs have their own limits. Scientific literature often includes a wide range of multimodal elements, such as molecular structure, tables, and charts, which are hard for text-focused LLMs to understand and analyze. This issue points to the urgent need for new solutions that can fully understand and analyze multimodal content in scientific literature. To answer this demand, we present Uni-SMART (Universal Science Multimodal Analysis and Research Transformer), an innovative model designed for in-depth understanding of multimodal scientific literature. Through rigorous quantitative evaluation across several domains, Uni-SMART demonstrates superior performance over leading text-focused LLMs. Furthermore, our exploration extends to practical applications, including patent infringement detection and nuanced analysis of charts. These applications not only highlight Uni-SMART's adaptability but also its potential to revolutionize how we interact with scientific literature.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [104]
标题:  A Multi-constraint and Multi-objective Allocation Model for Emergency  Rescue in IoT Environment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10299
作者:  Xinrun Xu,  Zhanbiao Lian,  Yurong Wu,  Manying Lv,  Zhiming Ding,  Jian Yan,  Shang Jiang
备注:  5 pages, 5 figures, ISCAS 2024
Abstract:Emergency relief operations are essential in disaster aftermaths, necessitating effective resource allocation to minimize negative impacts and maximize benefits. In prolonged crises or extensive disasters, a systematic, multi-cycle approach is key for timely and informed decision-making. Leveraging advancements in IoT and spatio-temporal data analytics, we've developed the Multi-Objective Shuffled Gray-Wolf Frog Leaping Model (MSGW-FLM). This multi-constraint, multi-objective resource allocation model has been rigorously tested against 28 diverse challenges, showing superior performance in comparison to established models such as NSGA-II, IBEA, and MOEA/D. MSGW-FLM's effectiveness is particularly notable in complex, multi-cycle emergency rescue scenarios, which involve numerous constraints and objectives. This model represents a significant step forward in optimizing resource distribution in emergency response situations.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [105]
标题:  Context-Semantic Quality Awareness Network for Fine-Grained Visual  Categorization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10298
作者:  Qin Xu,  Sitong Li,  Jiahui Wang,  Bo Jiang,  Jinhui Tang
备注:  
Abstract:Exploring and mining subtle yet distinctive features between sub-categories with similar appearances is crucial for fine-grained visual categorization (FGVC). However, less effort has been devoted to assessing the quality of extracted visual representations. Intuitively, the network may struggle to capture discriminative features from low-quality samples, which leads to a significant decline in FGVC performance. To tackle this challenge, we propose a weakly supervised Context-Semantic Quality Awareness Network (CSQA-Net) for FGVC. In this network, to model the spatial contextual relationship between rich part descriptors and global semantics for capturing more discriminative details within the object, we design a novel multi-part and multi-scale cross-attention (MPMSCA) module. Before feeding to the MPMSCA module, the part navigator is developed to address the scale confusion problems and accurately identify the local distinctive regions. Furthermore, we propose a generic multi-level semantic quality evaluation module (MLSQE) to progressively supervise and enhance hierarchical semantics from different levels of the backbone network. Finally, context-aware features from MPMSCA and semantically enhanced features from MLSQE are fed into the corresponding quality probing classifiers to evaluate their quality in real-time, thus boosting the discriminability of feature representations. Comprehensive experiments on four popular and highly competitive FGVC datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed CSQA-Net in comparison with the state-of-the-art methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [106]
标题:  Leveraging Neural Radiance Field in Descriptor Synthesis for Keypoints  Scene Coordinate Regression
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10297
作者:  Huy-Hoang Bui,  Bach-Thuan Bui,  Dinh-Tuan Tran,  Joo-Ho Lee
备注:  
Abstract:Classical structural-based visual localization methods offer high accuracy but face trade-offs in terms of storage, speed, and privacy. A recent innovation, keypoint scene coordinate regression (KSCR) named D2S addresses these issues by leveraging graph attention networks to enhance keypoint relationships and predict their 3D coordinates using a simple multilayer perceptron (MLP). Camera pose is then determined via PnP+RANSAC, using established 2D-3D correspondences. While KSCR achieves competitive results, rivaling state-of-the-art image-retrieval methods like HLoc across multiple benchmarks, its performance is hindered when data samples are limited due to the deep learning model's reliance on extensive data. This paper proposes a solution to this challenge by introducing a pipeline for keypoint descriptor synthesis using Neural Radiance Field (NeRF). By generating novel poses and feeding them into a trained NeRF model to create new views, our approach enhances the KSCR's generalization capabilities in data-scarce environments. The proposed system could significantly improve localization accuracy by up to 50\% and cost only a fraction of time for data synthesis. Furthermore, its modular design allows for the integration of multiple NeRFs, offering a versatile and efficient solution for visual localization. The implementation is publicly available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [107]
标题:  Formal Security Analysis of the AMD SEV-SNP Software Interface
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10296
作者:  Petar Paradžik,  Ante Derek,  Marko Horvat
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible
Abstract:AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization technologies enable confidential computing by protecting virtual machines from highly privileged software such as hypervisors. In this work, we develop the first, comprehensive symbolic model of the software interface of the latest SEV iteration called SEV Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP). Our model covers remote attestation, key derivation, page swap and live migration. We analyze the security of the software interface of SEV-SNP by verifying critical secrecy, authentication, attestation and freshness properties, and find that the platform-agnostic nature of messages exchanged between SNP guests and the AMD Secure Processor firmware presents a weakness of the design. We show multiple ways of exploiting this weakness, including the compromise of attestation report integrity, and suggest slight modifications to the design which let third parties detect guest migrations to vulnerable platforms
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [108]
标题:  MaiBaam: A Multi-Dialectal Bavarian Universal Dependency Treebank
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10293
作者:  Verena Blaschke,  Barbara Kovačić,  Siyao Peng,  Hinrich Schütze,  Barbara Plank
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Despite the success of the Universal Dependencies (UD) project exemplified by its impressive language breadth, there is still a lack in `within-language breadth': most treebanks focus on standard languages. Even for German, the language with the most annotations in UD, so far no treebank exists for one of its language varieties spoken by over 10M people: Bavarian. To contribute to closing this gap, we present the first multi-dialect Bavarian treebank (MaiBaam) manually annotated with part-of-speech and syntactic dependency information in UD, covering multiple text genres (wiki, fiction, grammar examples, social, non-fiction). We highlight the morphosyntactic differences between the closely-related Bavarian and German and showcase the rich variability of speakers' orthographies. Our corpus includes 15k tokens, covering dialects from all Bavarian-speaking areas spanning three countries. We provide baseline parsing and POS tagging results, which are lower than results obtained on German and vary substantially between different graph-based parsers. To support further research on Bavarian syntax, we make our dataset, language-specific guidelines and code publicly available.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [109]
标题:  Deep Learning for Multi-Level Detection and Localization of Myocardial  Scars Based on Regional Strain Validated on Virtual Patients
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10291
作者:  Müjde Akdeniz,  Claudia Alessandra Manetti,  Tijmen Koopsen,  Hani Nozari Mirar,  Sten Roar Snare,  Svein Arne Aase,  Joost Lumens,  Jurica Šprem,  Kristin Sarah McLeod
备注:  11 pages, 9 figures and 1 table. Preliminary results of the method was presented as poster in IEEE conference International Ultrasonics Symposium 2022 in Venice, Italy
Abstract:How well the heart is functioning can be quantified through measurements of myocardial deformation via echocardiography. Clinical assessment of cardiac function is generally focused on global indices of relative shortening, however, territorial, and segmental strain indices have shown to be abnormal in regions of myocardial disease, such as scar. In this work, we propose a single framework to predict myocardial disease substrates at global, territorial, and segmental levels using regional myocardial strain traces as input to a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based classification algorithm. An anatomically meaningful representation of the input data from the clinically standard bullseye representation to a multi-channel 2D image is proposed, to formulate the task as an image classification problem, thus enabling the use of state-of-the-art neural network configurations. A Fully Convolutional Network (FCN) is trained to detect and localize myocardial scar from regional left ventricular (LV) strain patterns. Simulated regional strain data from a controlled dataset of virtual patients with varying degrees and locations of myocardial scar is used for training and validation. The proposed method successfully detects and localizes the scars on 98% of the 5490 left ventricle (LV) segments of the 305 patients in the test set using strain traces only. Due to the sparse existence of scar, only 10% of the LV segments in the virtual patient cohort have scar. Taking the imbalance into account, the class balanced accuracy is calculated as 95%. The performance is reported on global, territorial, and segmental levels. The proposed method proves successful on the strain traces of the virtual cohort and offers the potential to solve the regional myocardial scar detection problem on the strain traces of the real patient cohorts.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [110]
标题:  Offline Goal-Conditioned Reinforcement Learning for Shape Control of  Deformable Linear Objects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10290
作者:  Rita Laezza,  Mohammadreza Shetab-Bushehri,  Gabriel Arslan Waltersson,  Erol Özgür,  Youcef Mezouar,  Yiannis Karayiannidis
备注:  
Abstract:Deformable objects present several challenges to the field of robotic manipulation. One of the tasks that best encapsulates the difficulties arising due to non-rigid behavior is shape control, which requires driving an object to a desired shape. While shape-servoing methods have been shown successful in contexts with approximately linear behavior, they can fail in tasks with more complex dynamics. We investigate an alternative approach, using offline RL to solve a planar shape control problem of a Deformable Linear Object (DLO). To evaluate the effect of material properties, two DLOs are tested namely a soft rope and an elastic cord. We frame this task as a goal-conditioned offline RL problem, and aim to learn to generalize to unseen goal shapes. Data collection and augmentation procedures are proposed to limit the amount of experimental data which needs to be collected with the real robot. We evaluate the amount of augmentation needed to achieve the best results, and test the effect of regularization through behavior cloning on the TD3+BC algorithm. Finally, we show that the proposed approach is able to outperform a shape-servoing baseline in a curvature inversion experiment.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [111]
标题:  Few-Shot Image Classification and Segmentation as Visual Question  Answering Using Vision-Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10287
作者:  Tian Meng,  Yang Tao,  Ruilin Lyu,  Wuliang Yin
备注:  
Abstract:The task of few-shot image classification and segmentation (FS-CS) involves classifying and segmenting target objects in a query image, given only a few examples of the target classes. We introduce the Vision-Instructed Segmentation and Evaluation (VISE) method that transforms the FS-CS problem into the Visual Question Answering (VQA) problem, utilising Vision-Language Models (VLMs), and addresses it in a training-free manner. By enabling a VLM to interact with off-the-shelf vision models as tools, the proposed method is capable of classifying and segmenting target objects using only image-level labels. Specifically, chain-of-thought prompting and in-context learning guide the VLM to answer multiple-choice questions like a human; vision models such as YOLO and Segment Anything Model (SAM) assist the VLM in completing the task. The modular framework of the proposed method makes it easily extendable. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on the Pascal-5i and COCO-20i datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [112]
标题:  RACH-less Handover with Early Timing Advance Acquisition for Outage  Reduction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10286
作者:  Subhyal Bin Iqbal,  Umur Karabulut,  Ahmad Awada,  Philipp Schulz,  Gerhard P. Fettweis
备注:  7 pages, 7 figures. Accepted for presentation at the 2024 IEEE 99th Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2024)-Spring to be held in Singapore
Abstract:For fifth-generation (5G) and 5G-Advanced networks, outage reduction within the context of reliability is a key objective since outage denotes the time period when a user equipment (UE) cannot communicate with the network. Earlier studies have shown that in the experimental high mobility scenario considered, outage is dominated by the interruption time that stems from the random access channel (RACH)-based handover process from the serving cell to the target cell. A handover by itself is a necessary mobility process to prevent mobility failures and their associated outage. This paper proposes a RACH-less handover signaling scheme for the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) conditional handover (CHO) mechanism. The proposed scheme exploits the decoupling between the CHO preparation and execution phases to establish initial synchronization between the UE and the target cell through an early acquisition of the timing advance. This significantly curtails the RACH process and therefore the handover interruption time. Results based on a system-level simulation-based mobility study have shown that the proposed scheme significantly reduces the outage and its constituent handover interruption time relatively by 18.7% and 43.2%, respectively.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [113]
标题:  Boundary parameter matching for isogeometric analysis using  Schwarz-Christoffel mapping
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10284
作者:  Ye Ji,  Matthias Möller,  Yingying Yu,  Chungang Zhu
备注:  20 pages, 12 figures
Abstract:Isogeometric analysis has brought a paradigm shift in integrating computational simulations with geometric designs across engineering disciplines. This technique necessitates analysis-suitable parameterization of physical domains to fully harness the synergy between Computer-Aided Design and Computer-Aided Engineering analyses. The existing methods often fix boundary parameters, leading to challenges in elongated geometries such as fluid channels and tubular reactors. This paper presents an innovative solution for the boundary parameter matching problem, specifically designed for analysis-suitable parameterizations. We employ a sophisticated Schwarz-Christoffel mapping technique, which is instrumental in computing boundary correspondences. A refined boundary curve reparameterization process complements this. Our dual-strategy approach maintains the geometric exactness and continuity of input physical domains, overcoming limitations often encountered with the existing reparameterization techniques. By employing our proposed boundary parameter method, we show that even a simple linear interpolation approach can effectively construct a satisfactory analysis-suitable parameterization. Our methodology offers significant improvements over traditional practices, enabling the generation of analysis-suitable and geometrically precise models, which is crucial for ensuring accurate simulation results. Numerical experiments show the capacity of the proposed method to enhance the quality and reliability of isogeometric analysis workflows.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [114]
标题:  Local positional graphs and attentive local features for a data and  runtime-efficient hierarchical place recognition pipeline
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10283
作者:  Fangming Yuan,  Stefan Schubert,  Peter Protzel,  Peer Neubert
备注:  IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L)
Abstract:Large-scale applications of Visual Place Recognition (VPR) require computationally efficient approaches. Further, a well-balanced combination of data-based and training-free approaches can decrease the required amount of training data and effort and can reduce the influence of distribution shifts between the training and application phases. This paper proposes a runtime and data-efficient hierarchical VPR pipeline that extends existing approaches and presents novel ideas. There are three main contributions: First, we propose Local Positional Graphs (LPG), a training-free and runtime-efficient approach to encode spatial context information of local image features. LPG can be combined with existing local feature detectors and descriptors and considerably improves the image-matching quality compared to existing techniques in our experiments. Second, we present Attentive Local SPED (ATLAS), an extension of our previous local features approach with an attention module that improves the feature quality while maintaining high data efficiency. The influence of the proposed modifications is evaluated in an extensive ablation study. Third, we present a hierarchical pipeline that exploits hyperdimensional computing to use the same local features as holistic HDC-descriptors for fast candidate selection and for candidate reranking. We combine all contributions in a runtime and data-efficient VPR pipeline that shows benefits over the state-of-the-art method Patch-NetVLAD on a large collection of standard place recognition datasets with 15$\%$ better performance in VPR accuracy, 54$\times$ faster feature comparison speed, and 55$\times$ less descriptor storage occupancy, making our method promising for real-world high-performance large-scale VPR in changing environments. Code will be made available with publication of this paper.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [115]
标题:  Optimal Control of Stationary Doubly Diffusive Flows on Two and Three  Dimensional Bounded Lipschitz Domains: Numerical Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10282
作者:  Jai Tushar,  Arbaz Khan,  Manil T. Mohan
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we propose fully nonconforming, locally exactly divergence-free discretizations based on lowest order Crouziex-Raviart finite element and piecewise constant spaces to study the optimal control of stationary double diffusion model presented in [Bürger, Méndez, Ruiz-Baier, SINUM (2019), 57:1318-1343]. The well-posedness of the discrete uncontrolled state and adjoint equations are discussed using discrete lifting and fixed point arguments, and convergence results are derived rigorously under minimal regularity. Building upon our recent work [Tushar, Khan, Mohan arXiv (2023)], we prove the local optimality of a reference control using second-order sufficient optimality condition for the control problem, and use it along with an optimize-then-discretize approach to prove optimal order a priori error estimates for the control, state and adjoint variables upto the regularity of the solution. The optimal control is computed using a primal-dual active set strategy as a semi-smooth Newton method and computational tests validate the predicted error decay rates and illustrate the proposed scheme's applicability to optimal control of thermohaline circulation problems.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [116]
标题:  Team Trifecta at Factify5WQA: Setting the Standard in Fact Verification  with Fine-Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10281
作者:  Shang-Hsuan Chiang,  Ming-Chih Lo,  Lin-Wei Chao,  Wen-Chih Peng
备注:  Accepted by AAAI 2024 Workshop: FACTIFY 3.0 - Workshop Series on Multimodal Fact-Checking and Hate Speech Detection
Abstract:In this paper, we present Pre-CoFactv3, a comprehensive framework comprised of Question Answering and Text Classification components for fact verification. Leveraging In-Context Learning, Fine-tuned Large Language Models (LLMs), and the FakeNet model, we address the challenges of fact verification. Our experiments explore diverse approaches, comparing different Pre-trained LLMs, introducing FakeNet, and implementing various ensemble methods. Notably, our team, Trifecta, secured first place in the AAAI-24 Factify 3.0 Workshop, surpassing the baseline accuracy by 103% and maintaining a 70% lead over the second competitor. This success underscores the efficacy of our approach and its potential contributions to advancing fact verification research.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [117]
标题:  Emotion-Aware Multimodal Fusion for Meme Emotion Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10279
作者:  Shivam Sharma,  Ramaneswaran S,  Md. Shad Akhtar,  Tanmoy Chakraborty
备注:  Accepted to IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing
Abstract:The ever-evolving social media discourse has witnessed an overwhelming use of memes to express opinions or dissent. Besides being misused for spreading malcontent, they are mined by corporations and political parties to glean the public's opinion. Therefore, memes predominantly offer affect-enriched insights towards ascertaining the societal psyche. However, the current approaches are yet to model the affective dimensions expressed in memes effectively. They rely extensively on large multimodal datasets for pre-training and do not generalize well due to constrained visual-linguistic grounding. In this paper, we introduce MOOD (Meme emOtiOns Dataset), which embodies six basic emotions. We then present ALFRED (emotion-Aware muLtimodal Fusion foR Emotion Detection), a novel multimodal neural framework that (i) explicitly models emotion-enriched visual cues, and (ii) employs an efficient cross-modal fusion via a gating mechanism. Our investigation establishes ALFRED's superiority over existing baselines by 4.94% F1. Additionally, ALFRED competes strongly with previous best approaches on the challenging Memotion task. We then discuss ALFRED's domain-agnostic generalizability by demonstrating its dominance on two recently-released datasets - HarMeme and Dank Memes, over other baselines. Further, we analyze ALFRED's interpretability using attention maps. Finally, we highlight the inherent challenges posed by the complex interplay of disparate modality-specific cues toward meme analysis.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [118]
标题:  A Question on the Explainability of Large Language Models and the  Word-Level Univariate First-Order Plausibility Assumption
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10275
作者:  Jeremie Bogaert,  Francois-Xavier Standaert
备注:  7 pages, 10 figures, Accepted and presented at AAAI 2024 (ReLM workshop)
Abstract:The explanations of large language models have recently been shown to be sensitive to the randomness used for their training, creating a need to characterize this sensitivity. In this paper, we propose a characterization that questions the possibility to provide simple and informative explanations for such models. To this end, we give statistical definitions for the explanations' signal, noise and signal-to-noise ratio. We highlight that, in a typical case study where word-level univariate explanations are analyzed with first-order statistical tools, the explanations of simple feature-based models carry more signal and less noise than those of transformer ones. We then discuss the possibility to improve these results with alternative definitions of signal and noise that would capture more complex explanations and analysis methods, while also questioning the tradeoff with their plausibility for readers.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [119]
标题:  A Conceptual Model for the Analysis of Investigation Elements in Games
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10272
作者:  Pedro Marques,  Marcus Parreiras,  Joshua Kritz,  Geraldo Xexeo
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents the 4E conceptual model, developed to formally analyze investigation games from a game design perspective. The model encompasses four components: Exploration, Elicitation, Experimentation, and Evaluation. Grounded Theory was employed as the methodology for constructing the model, allowing for an in-depth understanding of the underlying concepts. The resulting model was then compared to existing literature, and its contributions were thoroughly discussed. Overall, the 4E model presents a comprehensive framework for understanding investigation games elements. It's application in two real-world scenarios demonstrates its practical relevance.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [120]
标题:  Analysis of a Two-degree-of-freedom Beam for Rotational Piezoelectric  Energy Harvesting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10269
作者:  Xiang-Yu Li,  I-Chie Huang,  Wei-Jiun Su
备注:  
Abstract:This study introduces a two-degree-of-freedom piezoelectric energy harvester designed to harness rotational motion. The harvester is built using a cut-out beam which enables the first two resonant fre-quencies to be located close to each other. A distributed continuous model is developed and validated with experimental results. As the beam undergoes significant displacement due to rotational excitations, the geometric nonlinearity arising from longitudinal displacement is considered in the model. Com-pared to previous literature, the simulation results are much more precise for rotational energy harvest-ing. It is observed that as the rotating speed increases, the increased centrifugal force causes the first resonant frequency to rise while the second resonant frequency decreases. This study explores the po-tential to expand the bandwidth of the harvester using two types of nonlinear external force, namely mechanical stoppers and magnetic force. The results indicate that the proposed harvester can broaden the bandwidth by 1.17 Hz and 0.33 Hz at the first and second resonance frequencies, respectively, by using a stopper on the main beam.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [121]
标题:  A Vocabulary of Board Game Dynamics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10267
作者:  Joshua Kritz,  Geraldo Xexéo
备注:  SBGames, 12 pages
Abstract:In recent years, significant advances have been made in the field of game research. However, there has been a noticeable dearth of scholarly research focused on the domain of dynamics, despite the widespread recognition among researchers of its existence and importance. The objective of this paper is to address this research gap by presenting a vocabulary dedicated to boardgame dynamics. To achieve this goal, we employ a focus group to generate a set of dynamic concepts that are subsequently subjected to validation and refinement through a survey. The resulting concepts are then organized into a vocabulary using a taxonomic structure, allowing the grouping of these concepts into broader and more general ideas.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [122]
标题:  DSP: Dynamic Sequence Parallelism for Multi-Dimensional Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10266
作者:  Xuanlei Zhao,  Shenggan Cheng,  Zangwei Zheng,  Zheming Yang,  Ziming Liu,  Yang You
备注:  
Abstract:Scaling large models with long sequences across applications like language generation, video generation and multimodal tasks requires efficient sequence parallelism. However, existing sequence parallelism methods all assume a single sequence dimension and fail to adapt to multi-dimensional transformer architectures that perform attention calculations across different dimensions. This paper introduces Dynamic Sequence Parallelism (DSP), a novel approach to enable efficient sequence parallelism for multi-dimensional transformer models. The key idea is to dynamically switch the parallelism dimension according to the current computation stage, leveraging the potential characteristics of multi-dimensional attention. This dynamic dimension switching allows sequence parallelism with minimal communication overhead compared to applying traditional single-dimension parallelism to multi-dimensional models. Experiments show DSP improves end-to-end throughput by 42.0% to 216.8% over prior sequence parallelism methods.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [123]
标题:  Towards Generalizable Deepfake Video Detection with Thumbnail Layout and  Graph Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10261
作者:  Yuting Xu,  Jian Liang,  Lijun Sheng,  Xiao-Yu Zhang
备注:  Accepted by IJCV
Abstract:The deepfake threats to society and cybersecurity have provoked significant public apprehension, driving intensified efforts within the realm of deepfake video detection. Current video-level methods are mostly based on {3D CNNs} resulting in high computational demands, although have achieved good performance. This paper introduces an elegantly simple yet effective strategy named Thumbnail Layout (TALL), which transforms a video clip into a pre-defined layout to realize the preservation of spatial and temporal dependencies. This transformation process involves sequentially masking frames at the same positions within each frame. These frames are then resized into sub-frames and reorganized into the predetermined layout, forming thumbnails. TALL is model-agnostic and has remarkable simplicity, necessitating only minimal code modifications. Furthermore, we introduce a graph reasoning block (GRB) and semantic consistency (SC) loss to strengthen TALL, culminating in TALL++. GRB enhances interactions between different semantic regions to capture semantic-level inconsistency clues. The semantic consistency loss imposes consistency constraints on semantic features to improve model generalization ability. Extensive experiments on intra-dataset, cross-dataset, diffusion-generated image detection, and deepfake generation method recognition show that TALL++ achieves results surpassing or comparable to the state-of-the-art methods, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approaches for various deepfake detection problems. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [124]
标题:  Structural Preprocessing Method for Nonlinear Differential-Algebraic  Equations Using Linear Symbolic Matrices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10260
作者:  Taihei Oki,  Yujin Song
备注:  
Abstract:Differential-algebraic equations (DAEs) have been used in modeling various dynamical systems in science and engineering. Several preprocessing methods for DAEs, such as consistent initialization and index reduction, use structural information on DAEs. Unfortunately, these methods may fail when the system Jacobian, which is a functional matrix, derived from the DAE is singular. To transform a DAE with a singular system Jacobian into a nonsingular system, several regularization methods have been proposed. Most of all existing regularization methods rely on symbolic computation to eliminate the system Jacobian for finding a certificate of singularity, resulting in much computational time. Iwata--Oki--Takamatsu (2019) proposed a method (IOT-method) to find a certificate without symbolic computations. The IOT method approximates the system Jacobian by a simpler symbolic matrix, called a layered mixed matrix, which admits a fast combinatorial algorithm for singularity testing. However, it often overlooks the singularity of the system Jacobian since the approximation largely discards algebraic relationships among entries in the original system Jacobian. In this study, we propose a new regularization method extending the idea of the IOT method. Instead of layered mixed matrices, our method approximates the system Jacobian by more expressive symbolic matrices, called rank-1 coefficient mixed (1CM) matrices. This makes our method more widely applicable. We give a fast combinatorial algorithm for finding a singularity certificate of 1CM-matrices, which is free from symbolic elimination. Our method is also advantageous in that it globally preserves the solution set to the DAE. Through numerical experiments, we confirmed that our method runs fast for large-scale DAEs from real instances.
Subjects: Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [125]
标题:  Comprehensive Study Of Predictive Maintenance In Industries Using  Classification Models And LSTM Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10259
作者:  Saket Maheshwari,  Sambhav Tiwari,  Shyam Rai,  Satyam Vinayak Daman Pratap Singh
备注:  
Abstract:In today's technology-driven era, the imperative for predictive maintenance and advanced diagnostics extends beyond aviation to encompass the identification of damages, failures, and operational defects in rotating and moving machines. Implementing such services not only curtails maintenance costs but also extends machine lifespan, ensuring heightened operational efficiency. Moreover, it serves as a preventive measure against potential accidents or catastrophic events. The advent of Artificial Intelligence (AI) has revolutionized maintenance across industries, enabling more accurate and efficient prediction and analysis of machine failures, thereby conserving time and resources. Our proposed study aims to delve into various machine learning classification techniques, including Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest, Logistic Regression, and Convolutional Neural Network LSTM-Based, for predicting and analyzing machine performance. SVM classifies data into different categories based on their positions in a multidimensional space, while Random Forest employs ensemble learning to create multiple decision trees for classification. Logistic Regression predicts the probability of binary outcomes using input data. The primary objective of the study is to assess these algorithms' performance in predicting and analyzing machine performance, considering factors such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. The findings will aid maintenance experts in selecting the most suitable machine learning algorithm for effective prediction and analysis of machine performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [126]
标题:  Is Translation All You Need? A Study on Solving Multilingual Tasks with  Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10258
作者:  Chaoqun Liu,  Wenxuan Zhang,  Yiran Zhao,  Anh Tuan Luu,  Lidong Bing
备注:  18 pages
Abstract:Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong multilingual capabilities; yet, they are mostly English-centric due to the imbalanced training corpora. Existing works leverage this phenomenon to improve their multilingual performances on NLP tasks. In this work, we extend the evaluation from NLP tasks to real user queries. We find that even though translation into English can help improve the performance of multilingual NLP tasks for English-centric LLMs, it may not be optimal for all scenarios. For culture-related tasks that need deep language understanding, prompting in the native language proves to be more promising since it can capture the nuances related to culture and language. Therefore, we advocate for more efforts towards the development of strong multilingual LLMs instead of just English-centric LLMs.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [127]
标题:  EasyCalib: Simple and Low-Cost In-Situ Calibration for Force  Reconstruction with Vision-Based Tactile Sensors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10256
作者:  Mingxuan Li,  Lunwei Zhang,  Yen Hang Zhou,  Tiemin Li,  Yao Jiang
备注:  8 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:For elastomer-based tactile sensors, represented by visuotactile sensors, routine calibration of mechanical parameters (Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio) has been shown to be important for force reconstruction. However, the reliance on existing in-situ calibration methods for accurate force measurements limits their cost-effective and flexible applications. This article proposes a new in-situ calibration scheme that relies only on comparing contact deformation. Based on the detailed derivations of the normal contact and torsional contact theories, we designed a simple and low-cost calibration device, EasyCalib, and validated its effectiveness through extensive finite element analysis. We also explored the accuracy of EasyCalib in the practical application and demonstrated that accurate contact distributed force reconstruction can be realized based on the mechanical parameters obtained. EasyCalib balances low hardware cost, ease of operation, and low dependence on technical expertise and is expected to provide the necessary accuracy guarantees for wide applications of visuotactile sensors in the wild.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [128]
标题:  Arbitrary-Scale Image Generation and Upsampling using Latent Diffusion  Model and Implicit Neural Decoder
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10255
作者:  Jinseok Kim,  Tae-Kyun Kim
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:Super-resolution (SR) and image generation are important tasks in computer vision and are widely adopted in real-world applications. Most existing methods, however, generate images only at fixed-scale magnification and suffer from over-smoothing and artifacts. Additionally, they do not offer enough diversity of output images nor image consistency at different scales. Most relevant work applied Implicit Neural Representation (INR) to the denoising diffusion model to obtain continuous-resolution yet diverse and high-quality SR results. Since this model operates in the image space, the larger the resolution of image is produced, the more memory and inference time is required, and it also does not maintain scale-specific consistency. We propose a novel pipeline that can super-resolve an input image or generate from a random noise a novel image at arbitrary scales. The method consists of a pretrained auto-encoder, a latent diffusion model, and an implicit neural decoder, and their learning strategies. The proposed method adopts diffusion processes in a latent space, thus efficient, yet aligned with output image space decoded by MLPs at arbitrary scales. More specifically, our arbitrary-scale decoder is designed by the symmetric decoder w/o up-scaling from the pretrained auto-encoder, and Local Implicit Image Function (LIIF) in series. The latent diffusion process is learnt by the denoising and the alignment losses jointly. Errors in output images are backpropagated via the fixed decoder, improving the quality of output images. In the extensive experiments using multiple public benchmarks on the two tasks i.e. image super-resolution and novel image generation at arbitrary scales, the proposed method outperforms relevant methods in metrics of image quality, diversity and scale consistency. It is significantly better than the relevant prior-art in the inference speed and memory usage.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [129]
标题:  Magic Tokens: Select Diverse Tokens for Multi-modal Object  Re-Identification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10254
作者:  Pingping Zhang,  Yuhao Wang,  Yang Liu,  Zhengzheng Tu,  Huchuan Lu
备注:  This work is accepted by CVPR2024. More modifications may be performed
Abstract:Single-modal object re-identification (ReID) faces great challenges in maintaining robustness within complex visual scenarios. In contrast, multi-modal object ReID utilizes complementary information from diverse modalities, showing great potentials for practical applications. However, previous methods may be easily affected by irrelevant backgrounds and usually ignore the modality gaps. To address above issues, we propose a novel learning framework named \textbf{EDITOR} to select diverse tokens from vision Transformers for multi-modal object ReID. We begin with a shared vision Transformer to extract tokenized features from different input modalities. Then, we introduce a Spatial-Frequency Token Selection (SFTS) module to adaptively select object-centric tokens with both spatial and frequency information. Afterwards, we employ a Hierarchical Masked Aggregation (HMA) module to facilitate feature interactions within and across modalities. Finally, to further reduce the effect of backgrounds, we propose a Background Consistency Constraint (BCC) and an Object-Centric Feature Refinement (OCFR). They are formulated as two new loss functions, which improve the feature discrimination with background suppression. As a result, our framework can generate more discriminative features for multi-modal object ReID. Extensive experiments on three multi-modal ReID benchmarks verify the effectiveness of our methods. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [130]
标题:  Open Continual Feature Selection via Granular-Ball Knowledge Transfer
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10253
作者:  Xuemei Cao,  Xin Yang,  Shuyin Xia,  Guoyin Wang,  Tianrui Li
备注:  14 pages, 7 figures, 6 tables
Abstract:This paper presents a novel framework for continual feature selection (CFS) in data preprocessing, particularly in the context of an open and dynamic environment where unknown classes may emerge. CFS encounters two primary challenges: the discovery of unknown knowledge and the transfer of known knowledge. To this end, the proposed CFS method combines the strengths of continual learning (CL) with granular-ball computing (GBC), which focuses on constructing a granular-ball knowledge base to detect unknown classes and facilitate the transfer of previously learned knowledge for further feature selection. CFS consists of two stages: initial learning and open learning. The former aims to establish an initial knowledge base through multi-granularity representation using granular-balls. The latter utilizes prior granular-ball knowledge to identify unknowns, updates the knowledge base for granular-ball knowledge transfer, reinforces old knowledge, and integrates new knowledge. Subsequently, we devise an optimal feature subset mechanism that incorporates minimal new features into the existing optimal subset, often yielding superior results during each period. Extensive experimental results on public benchmark datasets demonstrate our method's superiority in terms of both effectiveness and efficiency compared to state-of-the-art feature selection methods.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [131]
标题:  Region-aware Distribution Contrast: A Novel Approach to Multi-Task  Partially Supervised Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10252
作者:  Meixuan Li,  Tianyu Li,  Guoqing Wang,  Peng Wang,  Yang Yang,  Heng Tao Shen
备注:  
Abstract:In this study, we address the intricate challenge of multi-task dense prediction, encompassing tasks such as semantic segmentation, depth estimation, and surface normal estimation, particularly when dealing with partially annotated data (MTPSL). The complexity arises from the absence of complete task labels for each training image. Given the inter-related nature of these pixel-wise dense tasks, our focus is on mining and capturing cross-task relationships. Existing solutions typically rely on learning global image representations for global cross-task image matching, imposing constraints that, unfortunately, sacrifice the finer structures within the images. Attempting local matching as a remedy faces hurdles due to the lack of precise region supervision, making local alignment a challenging endeavor. The introduction of Segment Anything Model (SAM) sheds light on addressing local alignment challenges by providing free and high-quality solutions for region detection. Leveraging SAM-detected regions, the subsequent challenge lies in aligning the representations within these regions. Diverging from conventional methods that directly learn a monolithic image representation, our proposal involves modeling region-wise representations using Gaussian Distributions. Aligning these distributions between corresponding regions from different tasks imparts higher flexibility and capacity to capture intra-region structures, accommodating a broader range of tasks. This innovative approach significantly enhances our ability to effectively capture cross-task relationships, resulting in improved overall performance in partially supervised multi-task dense prediction scenarios. Extensive experiments conducted on two widely used benchmarks underscore the superior effectiveness of our proposed method, showcasing state-of-the-art performance even when compared to fully supervised methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [132]
标题:  A Survey on Game Playing Agents and Large Models: Methods, Applications,  and Challenges
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10249
作者:  Xinrun Xu,  Yuxin Wang,  Chaoyi Xu,  Ziluo Ding,  Jiechuan Jiang,  Zhiming Ding,  Börje F. Karlsson
备注:  13 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:The swift evolution of Large-scale Models (LMs), either language-focused or multi-modal, has garnered extensive attention in both academy and industry. But despite the surge in interest in this rapidly evolving area, there are scarce systematic reviews on their capabilities and potential in distinct impactful scenarios. This paper endeavours to help bridge this gap, offering a thorough examination of the current landscape of LM usage in regards to complex game playing scenarios and the challenges still open. Here, we seek to systematically review the existing architectures of LM-based Agents (LMAs) for games and summarize their commonalities, challenges, and any other insights. Furthermore, we present our perspective on promising future research avenues for the advancement of LMs in games. We hope to assist researchers in gaining a clear understanding of the field and to generate more interest in this highly impactful research direction. A corresponding resource, continuously updated, can be found in our GitHub repository.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [133]
标题:  CoLeCLIP: Open-Domain Continual Learning via Joint Task Prompt and  Vocabulary Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10245
作者:  Yukun Li,  Guansong Pang,  Wei Suo,  Chenchen Jing,  Yuling Xi,  Lingqiao Liu,  Hao Chen,  Guoqiang Liang,  Peng Wang
备注:  
Abstract:This paper explores the problem of continual learning (CL) of vision-language models (VLMs) in open domains, where the models need to perform continual updating and inference on a streaming of datasets from diverse seen and unseen domains with novel classes. Such a capability is crucial for various applications in open environments, e.g., AI assistants, autonomous driving systems, and robotics. Current CL studies mostly focus on closed-set scenarios in a single domain with known classes. Large pre-trained VLMs like CLIP have demonstrated superior zero-shot recognition ability, and a number of recent studies leverage this ability to mitigate catastrophic forgetting in CL, but they focus on closed-set CL in a single domain dataset. Open-domain CL of large VLMs is significantly more challenging due to 1) large class correlations and domain gaps across the datasets and 2) the forgetting of zero-shot knowledge in the pre-trained VLMs in addition to the knowledge learned from the newly adapted datasets. In this work we introduce a novel approach, termed CoLeCLIP, that learns an open-domain CL model based on CLIP. It addresses these challenges by a joint learning of a set of task prompts and a cross-domain class vocabulary. Extensive experiments on 11 domain datasets show that CoLeCLIP outperforms state-of-the-art methods for open-domain CL under both task- and class-incremental learning settings.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [134]
标题:  FDGaussian: Fast Gaussian Splatting from Single Image via  Geometric-aware Diffusion Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10242
作者:  Qijun Feng,  Zhen Xing,  Zuxuan Wu,  Yu-Gang Jiang
备注:  
Abstract:Reconstructing detailed 3D objects from single-view images remains a challenging task due to the limited information available. In this paper, we introduce FDGaussian, a novel two-stage framework for single-image 3D reconstruction. Recent methods typically utilize pre-trained 2D diffusion models to generate plausible novel views from the input image, yet they encounter issues with either multi-view inconsistency or lack of geometric fidelity. To overcome these challenges, we propose an orthogonal plane decomposition mechanism to extract 3D geometric features from the 2D input, enabling the generation of consistent multi-view images. Moreover, we further accelerate the state-of-the-art Gaussian Splatting incorporating epipolar attention to fuse images from different viewpoints. We demonstrate that FDGaussian generates images with high consistency across different views and reconstructs high-quality 3D objects, both qualitatively and quantitatively. More examples can be found at our website this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [135]
标题:  A Big Data Approach to Understand Sub-national Determinants of FDI in  Africa
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10239
作者:  A. Fronzetti Colladon,  R. Vestrelli,  S. Bait,  M. M. Schiraldi
备注:  
Abstract:Various macroeconomic and institutional factors hinder FDI inflows, including corruption, trade openness, access to finance, and political instability. Existing research mostly focuses on country-level data, with limited exploration of firm-level data, especially in developing countries. Recognizing this gap, recent calls for research emphasize the need for qualitative data analysis to delve into FDI determinants, particularly at the regional level. This paper proposes a novel methodology, based on text mining and social network analysis, to get information from more than 167,000 online news articles to quantify regional-level (sub-national) attributes affecting FDI ownership in African companies. Our analysis extends information on obstacles to industrial development as mapped by the World Bank Enterprise Surveys. Findings suggest that regional (sub-national) structural and institutional characteristics can play an important role in determining foreign ownership.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Econometrics (econ.EM); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)

**编号**: [136]
标题:  A comprehensive study on Frequent Pattern Mining and Clustering  categories for topic detection in Persian text stream
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10237
作者:  Elnaz Zafarani-Moattar,  Mohammad Reza Kangavari,  Amir Masoud Rahmani
备注:  
Abstract:Topic detection is a complex process and depends on language because it somehow needs to analyze text. There have been few studies on topic detection in Persian, and the existing algorithms are not remarkable. Therefore, we aimed to study topic detection in Persian. The objectives of this study are: 1) to conduct an extensive study on the best algorithms for topic detection, 2) to identify necessary adaptations to make these algorithms suitable for the Persian language, and 3) to evaluate their performance on Persian social network texts. To achieve these objectives, we have formulated two research questions: First, considering the lack of research in Persian, what modifications should be made to existing frameworks, especially those developed in English, to make them compatible with Persian? Second, how do these algorithms perform, and which one is superior? There are various topic detection methods that can be categorized into different categories. Frequent pattern and clustering are selected for this research, and a hybrid of both is proposed as a new category. Then, ten methods from these three categories are selected. All of them are re-implemented from scratch, changed, and adapted with Persian. These ten methods encompass different types of topic detection methods and have shown good performance in English. The text of Persian social network posts is used as the dataset. Additionally, a new multiclass evaluation criterion, called FS, is used in this paper for the first time in the field of topic detection. Approximately 1.4 billion tokens are processed during experiments. The results indicate that if we are searching for keyword-topics that are easily understandable by humans, the hybrid category is better. However, if the aim is to cluster posts for further analysis, the frequent pattern category is more suitable.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [137]
标题:  A Fixed-Point Approach to Unified Prompt-Based Counting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10236
作者:  Wei Lin,  Antoni B. Chan
备注:  Accepted by AAAI 2024
Abstract:Existing class-agnostic counting models typically rely on a single type of prompt, e.g., box annotations. This paper aims to establish a comprehensive prompt-based counting framework capable of generating density maps for concerned objects indicated by various prompt types, such as box, point, and text. To achieve this goal, we begin by converting prompts from different modalities into prompt masks without requiring training. These masks are then integrated into a class-agnostic counting methodology for predicting density maps. Furthermore, we introduce a fixed-point inference along with an associated loss function to improve counting accuracy, all without introducing new parameters. The effectiveness of this method is substantiated both theoretically and experimentally. Additionally, a contrastive training scheme is implemented to mitigate dataset bias inherent in current class-agnostic counting datasets, a strategy whose effectiveness is confirmed by our ablation study. Our model excels in prominent class-agnostic datasets and exhibits superior performance in cross-dataset adaptation tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [138]
标题:  Matrix Completion via Nonsmooth Regularization of Fully Connected Neural  Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10232
作者:  Sajad Faramarzi,  Farzan Haddadi,  Sajjad Amini,  Masoud Ahookhosh
备注:  
Abstract:Conventional matrix completion methods approximate the missing values by assuming the matrix to be low-rank, which leads to a linear approximation of missing values. It has been shown that enhanced performance could be attained by using nonlinear estimators such as deep neural networks. Deep fully connected neural networks (FCNNs), one of the most suitable architectures for matrix completion, suffer from over-fitting due to their high capacity, which leads to low generalizability. In this paper, we control over-fitting by regularizing the FCNN model in terms of the $\ell_{1}$ norm of intermediate representations and nuclear norm of weight matrices. As such, the resulting regularized objective function becomes nonsmooth and nonconvex, i.e., existing gradient-based methods cannot be applied to our model. We propose a variant of the proximal gradient method and investigate its convergence to a critical point. In the initial epochs of FCNN training, the regularization terms are ignored, and through epochs, the effect of that increases. The gradual addition of nonsmooth regularization terms is the main reason for the better performance of the deep neural network with nonsmooth regularization terms (DNN-NSR) algorithm. Our simulations indicate the superiority of the proposed algorithm in comparison with existing linear and nonlinear algorithms.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [139]
标题:  Less is More: One-shot Subgraph Reasoning on Large-scale Knowledge  Graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10231
作者:  Zhanke Zhou,  Yongqi Zhang,  Jiangchao Yao,  Quanming Yao,  Bo Han
备注:  32 pages, 43 figures
Abstract:To deduce new facts on a knowledge graph (KG), a link predictor learns from the graph structure and collects local evidence to find the answer to a given query. However, existing methods suffer from a severe scalability problem due to the utilization of the whole KG for prediction, which hinders their promise on large scale KGs and cannot be directly addressed by vanilla sampling methods. In this work, we propose the one-shot-subgraph link prediction to achieve efficient and adaptive prediction. The design principle is that, instead of directly acting on the whole KG, the prediction procedure is decoupled into two steps, i.e., (i) extracting only one subgraph according to the query and (ii) predicting on this single, query dependent subgraph. We reveal that the non-parametric and computation-efficient heuristics Personalized PageRank (PPR) can effectively identify the potential answers and supporting evidence. With efficient subgraph-based prediction, we further introduce the automated searching of the optimal configurations in both data and model spaces. Empirically, we achieve promoted efficiency and leading performances on five large-scale benchmarks. The code is publicly available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [140]
标题:  Fairness Optimization for Intelligent Reflecting Surface Aided Uplink  Rate-Splitting Multiple Access
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10230
作者:  Shanshan Zhang,  Wen Chen,  Qingqing Wu,  Ziwei Liu,  Shunqing Zhang,  Jun Li
备注:  This work has been submitted to TCOM
Abstract:This paper studies the fair transmission design for an intelligent reflecting surface (IRS) aided rate-splitting multiple access (RSMA). IRS is used to establish a good signal propagation environment and enhance the RSMA transmission performance. The fair rate adaption problem is constructed as a max-min optimization problem. To solve the optimization problem, we adopt an alternative optimization (AO) algorithm to optimize the power allocation, beamforming, and decoding order, respectively. A generalized power iteration (GPI) method is proposed to optimize the receive beamforming, which can improve the minimum rate of devices and reduce the optimization complexity. At the base station (BS), a successive group decoding (SGD) algorithm is proposed to tackle the uplink signal estimation, which trades off the fairness and complexity of decoding. At the same time, we also consider robust communication with imperfect channel state information at the transmitter (CSIT), which studies robust optimization by using lower bound expressions on the expected data rates. Extensive numerical results show that the proposed optimization algorithm can significantly improve the performance of fairness. It also provides reliable results for uplink communication with imperfect CSIT.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [141]
标题:  HawkEye: Training Video-Text LLMs for Grounding Text in Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10228
作者:  Yueqian Wang,  Xiaojun Meng,  Jianxin Liang,  Yuxuan Wang,  Qun Liu,  Dongyan Zhao
备注:  
Abstract:Video-text Large Language Models (video-text LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in answering questions and holding conversations on simple videos. However, they perform almost the same as random on grounding text queries in long and complicated videos, having little ability to understand and reason about temporal information, which is the most fundamental difference between videos and images. In this paper, we propose HawkEye, one of the first video-text LLMs that can perform temporal video grounding in a fully text-to-text manner. To collect training data that is applicable for temporal video grounding, we construct InternVid-G, a large-scale video-text corpus with segment-level captions and negative spans, with which we introduce two new time-aware training objectives to video-text LLMs. We also propose a coarse-grained method of representing segments in videos, which is more robust and easier for LLMs to learn and follow than other alternatives. Extensive experiments show that HawkEye is better at temporal video grounding and comparable on other video-text tasks with existing video-text LLMs, which verifies its superior video-text multi-modal understanding abilities.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [142]
标题:  Liquid Staking Tokens in Automated Market Makers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10226
作者:  Krzysztof Gogol,  Robin Fritsch,  Malte Schlosser,  Johnnatan Messias,  Benjamin Kraner,  Claudio Tessone
备注:  
Abstract:This paper studies liquid staking tokens (LSTs) on automated market makers (AMMs), both theoretically and empirically. LSTs are tokenized representations of staked assets on proof-of-stake blockchains. First, we theoretically model LST-liquidity on AMMs. This includes categorizing suitable AMM types for LST liquidity, as well as deriving formulas for the necessary returns from trading fees to adequately compensate liquidity providers under the particular price trajectories of LSTs. Two relevant metrics are considered. Firstly, losses compared to holding the liquidity outside the AMM (loss-versus-holding, or impermanent loss). Secondly, the relative profitability compared to fully staking the capital (loss-versus-staking) which is a metric specifically introduced for the case of LST-liquidity. Subsequently, we empirically measure these metrics for Ethereum LSTs across the most relevant AMM pools. We find that, while trading fees often compensate for impermanent loss, fully staking is more profitable for many pools, putting the sustainability of current LST allocation to AMMs into question.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [143]
标题:  V2AIX: A Multi-Modal Real-World Dataset of ETSI ITS V2X Messages in  Public Road Traffic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10221
作者:  Guido Kueppers,  Jean-Pierre Busch,  Lennart Reiher,  Lutz Eckstein
备注:  7 pages; Submitted to IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV) 2024
Abstract:Connectivity is a main driver for the ongoing megatrend of automated mobility: future Cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems (C-ITS) will connect road vehicles, traffic signals, roadside infrastructure, and even vulnerable road users, sharing data and compute for safer, more efficient, and more comfortable mobility. In terms of communication technology for realizing such vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication, the WLAN-based peer-to-peer approach (IEEE 802.11p, ITS-G5 in Europe) competes with C-V2X based on cellular technologies (4G and beyond). Irrespective of the underlying communication standard, common message interfaces are crucial for a common understanding between vehicles, especially from different manufacturers. Targeting this issue, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) has been standardizing V2X message formats such as the Cooperative Awareness Message (CAM). In this work, we present V2AIX, a multi-modal real-world dataset of ETSI ITS messages gathered in public road traffic, the first of its kind. Collected in measurement drives and with stationary infrastructure, we have recorded more than 230 000 V2X messages from more than 1800 vehicles and roadside units in public road traffic. Alongside a first analysis of the dataset, we present a way of integrating ETSI ITS V2X messages into the Robot Operating System (ROS). This enables researchers to not only thoroughly analyze real-world V2X data, but to also study and implement standardized V2X messages in ROS-based automated driving applications. The full dataset is publicly available for noncommercial use at this http URL.
Subjects: Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [144]
标题:  From Chaos to Clarity: Time Series Anomaly Detection in Astronomical  Observations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10220
作者:  Xinli Hao,  Yile Chen,  Chen Yang,  Zhihui Du,  Chaohong Ma,  Chao Wu,  Xiaofeng Meng
备注:  accepted by ICDE 2024
Abstract:With the development of astronomical facilities, large-scale time series data observed by these facilities is being collected. Analyzing anomalies in these astronomical observations is crucial for uncovering potential celestial events and physical phenomena, thus advancing the scientific research process. However, existing time series anomaly detection methods fall short in tackling the unique characteristics of astronomical observations where each star is inherently independent but interfered by random concurrent noise, resulting in a high rate of false alarms. To overcome the challenges, we propose AERO, a novel two-stage framework tailored for unsupervised anomaly detection in astronomical observations. In the first stage, we employ a Transformer-based encoder-decoder architecture to learn the normal temporal patterns on each variate (i.e., star) in alignment with the characteristic of variate independence. In the second stage, we enhance the graph neural network with a window-wise graph structure learning to tackle the occurrence of concurrent noise characterized by spatial and temporal randomness. In this way, AERO is not only capable of distinguishing normal temporal patterns from potential anomalies but also effectively differentiating concurrent noise, thus decreasing the number of false alarms. We conducted extensive experiments on three synthetic datasets and three real-world datasets. The results demonstrate that AERO outperforms the compared baselines. Notably, compared to the state-of-the-art model, AERO improves the F1-score by up to 8.76% and 2.63% on synthetic and real-world datasets respectively.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [145]
标题:  Exploring Optical Flow Inclusion into nnU-Net Framework for Surgical  Instrument Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10216
作者:  Marcos Fernández-Rodríguez,  Bruno Silva,  Sandro Queirós,  Helena R. Torres,  Bruno Oliveira,  Pedro Morais,  Lukas R. Buschle,  Jorge Correia-Pinto,  Estevão Lima,  João L. Vilaça
备注:  
Abstract:Surgical instrument segmentation in laparoscopy is essential for computer-assisted surgical systems. Despite the Deep Learning progress in recent years, the dynamic setting of laparoscopic surgery still presents challenges for precise segmentation. The nnU-Net framework excelled in semantic segmentation analyzing single frames without temporal information. The framework's ease of use, including its ability to be automatically configured, and its low expertise requirements, have made it a popular base framework for comparisons. Optical flow (OF) is a tool commonly used in video tasks to estimate motion and represent it in a single frame, containing temporal information. This work seeks to employ OF maps as an additional input to the nnU-Net architecture to improve its performance in the surgical instrument segmentation task, taking advantage of the fact that instruments are the main moving objects in the surgical field. With this new input, the temporal component would be indirectly added without modifying the architecture. Using CholecSeg8k dataset, three different representations of movement were estimated and used as new inputs, comparing them with a baseline model. Results showed that the use of OF maps improves the detection of classes with high movement, even when these are scarce in the dataset. To further improve performance, future work may focus on implementing other OF-preserving augmentations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [146]
标题:  Enhanced Coherence-Aware Network with Hierarchical Disentanglement for  Aspect-Category Sentiment Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10214
作者:  Jin Cui,  Fumiyo Fukumoto,  Xinfeng Wang,  Yoshimi Suzuki,  Jiyi Li,  Noriko Tomuro,  Wanzeng Kong
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Aspect-category-based sentiment analysis (ACSA), which aims to identify aspect categories and predict their sentiments has been intensively studied due to its wide range of NLP applications. Most approaches mainly utilize intrasentential features. However, a review often includes multiple different aspect categories, and some of them do not explicitly appear in the review. Even in a sentence, there is more than one aspect category with its sentiments, and they are entangled intra-sentence, which makes the model fail to discriminately preserve all sentiment characteristics. In this paper, we propose an enhanced coherence-aware network with hierarchical disentanglement (ECAN) for ACSA tasks. Specifically, we explore coherence modeling to capture the contexts across the whole review and to help the implicit aspect and sentiment identification. To address the issue of multiple aspect categories and sentiment entanglement, we propose a hierarchical disentanglement module to extract distinct categories and sentiment features. Extensive experimental and visualization results show that our ECAN effectively decouples multiple categories and sentiments entangled in the coherence representations and achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance. Our codes and data are available online: \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [147]
标题:  BlindDiff: Empowering Degradation Modelling in Diffusion Models for  Blind Image Super-Resolution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10211
作者:  Feng Li,  Yixuan Wu,  Zichao Liang,  Runmin Cong,  Huihui Bai,  Yao Zhao,  Meng Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Diffusion models (DM) have achieved remarkable promise in image super-resolution (SR). However, most of them are tailored to solving non-blind inverse problems with fixed known degradation settings, limiting their adaptability to real-world applications that involve complex unknown degradations. In this work, we propose BlindDiff, a DM-based blind SR method to tackle the blind degradation settings in SISR. BlindDiff seamlessly integrates the MAP-based optimization into DMs, which constructs a joint distribution of the low-resolution (LR) observation, high-resolution (HR) data, and degradation kernels for the data and kernel priors, and solves the blind SR problem by unfolding MAP approach along with the reverse process. Unlike most DMs, BlindDiff firstly presents a modulated conditional transformer (MCFormer) that is pre-trained with noise and kernel constraints, further serving as a posterior sampler to provide both priors simultaneously. Then, we plug a simple yet effective kernel-aware gradient term between adjacent sampling iterations that guides the diffusion model to learn degradation consistency knowledge. This also enables to joint refine the degradation model as well as HR images by observing the previous denoised sample. With the MAP-based reverse diffusion process, we show that BlindDiff advocates alternate optimization for blur kernel estimation and HR image restoration in a mutual reinforcing manner. Experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets show that BlindDiff achieves the state-of-the-art performance with significant model complexity reduction compared to recent DM-based methods. Code will be available at \url{this https URL}
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [148]
标题:  Read between the lines -- Functionality Extraction From READMEs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10205
作者:  Prince Kumar,  Srikanth Tamilselvam,  Dinesh Garg
备注:  
Abstract:While text summarization is a well-known NLP task, in this paper, we introduce a novel and useful variant of it called functionality extraction from Git README files. Though this task is a text2text generation at an abstract level, it involves its own peculiarities and challenges making existing text2text generation systems not very useful. The motivation behind this task stems from a recent surge in research and development activities around the use of large language models for code-related tasks, such as code refactoring, code summarization, etc. We also release a human-annotated dataset called FuncRead, and develop a battery of models for the task. Our exhaustive experimentation shows that small size fine-tuned models beat any baseline models that can be designed using popular black-box or white-box large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and Bard. Our best fine-tuned 7 Billion CodeLlama model exhibit 70% and 20% gain on the F1 score against ChatGPT and Bard respectively.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [149]
标题:  The Euclidean MST-ratio for Bi-colored Lattices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10204
作者:  Sebastiano Cultrera di Montesano,  Ondřej Draganov,  Herbert Edelsbrunner,  Morteza Saghafian
备注:  
Abstract:Given a finite set, $A \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$, and a subset, $B \subseteq A$, the \emph{MST-ratio} is the combined length of the minimum spanning trees of $B$ and $A \setminus B$ divided by the length of the minimum spanning tree of $A$. The question of the supremum, over all sets $A$, of the maximum, over all subsets $B$, is related to the Steiner ratio, and we prove this sup-max is between $2.154$ and $2.427$. Restricting ourselves to $2$-dimensional lattices, we prove that the sup-max is $2.0$, while the inf-max is $1.25$. By some margin the most difficult of these results is the upper bound for the inf-max, which we prove by showing that the hexagonal lattice cannot have MST-ratio larger than $1.25$.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [150]
标题:  Effective polygonal mesh generation and refinement for VEM
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10203
作者:  Stefano Berrone,  Fabio Vicini
备注:  
Abstract:In the present work we introduce a novel refinement algorithm for two-dimensional elliptic partial differential equations discretized with Virtual Element Method (VEM). The algorithm improves the numerical solution accuracy and the mesh quality through a controlled refinement strategy applied to the generic polygonal elements of the domain tessellation. The numerical results show that the outlined strategy proves to be versatile and applicable to any two-dimensional problem where polygonal meshes offer advantages. In particular, we focus on the simulation of flow in fractured media, specifically using the Discrete Fracture Network (DFN) model. A residual a-posteriori error estimator tailored for the DFN case is employed. We chose this particular application to emphasize the effectiveness of the algorithm in handling complex geometries. All the numerical tests demonstrate optimal convergence rates for all the tested VEM orders.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [151]
标题:  Ultra-Wideband Positioning System Based on ESP32 and DWM3000 Modules
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10194
作者:  Sebastian Krebs,  Tom Herter
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, an Ultra-Wideband (UWB) positioning system is introduced, that leverages six identical custom-designed boards, each featuring an ESP32 microcontroller and a DWM3000 module from Quorvo. The system is capable of achieving localization with an accuracy of up to 10 cm, by utilizing Two-Way-Ranging (TWR) measurements between one designated tag and five anchor devices. The gathered distance measurements are subsequently processed by an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) running locally on the tag board, enabling it to determine its own position, relying on fixed, a priori known positions of the anchor boards. This paper presents a comprehensive overview of the systems architecture, the key components, and the capabilities it offers for indoor positioning and tracking applications.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [152]
标题:  Generative Region-Language Pretraining for Open-Ended Object Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10191
作者:  Chuang Lin,  Yi Jiang,  Lizhen Qu,  Zehuan Yuan,  Jianfei Cai
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:In recent research, significant attention has been devoted to the open-vocabulary object detection task, aiming to generalize beyond the limited number of classes labeled during training and detect objects described by arbitrary category names at inference. Compared with conventional object detection, open vocabulary object detection largely extends the object detection categories. However, it relies on calculating the similarity between image regions and a set of arbitrary category names with a pretrained vision-and-language model. This implies that, despite its open-set nature, the task still needs the predefined object categories during the inference stage. This raises the question: What if we do not have exact knowledge of object categories during inference? In this paper, we call such a new setting as generative open-ended object detection, which is a more general and practical problem. To address it, we formulate object detection as a generative problem and propose a simple framework named GenerateU, which can detect dense objects and generate their names in a free-form way. Particularly, we employ Deformable DETR as a region proposal generator with a language model translating visual regions to object names. To assess the free-form object detection task, we introduce an evaluation method designed to quantitatively measure the performance of generative outcomes. Extensive experiments demonstrate strong zero-shot detection performance of our GenerateU. For example, on the LVIS dataset, our GenerateU achieves comparable results to the open-vocabulary object detection method GLIP, even though the category names are not seen by GenerateU during inference. Code is available at: https:// this http URL .
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [153]
标题:  Perceptual Quality-based Model Training under Annotator Label  Uncertainty
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10190
作者:  Chen Zhou,  Mohit Prabhushankar,  Ghassan AlRegib
备注:  
Abstract:Annotators exhibit disagreement during data labeling, which can be termed as annotator label uncertainty. Annotator label uncertainty manifests in variations of labeling quality. Training with a single low-quality annotation per sample induces model reliability degradations. In this work, we first examine the effects of annotator label uncertainty in terms of the model's generalizability and prediction uncertainty. We observe that the model's generalizability and prediction uncertainty degrade with the presence of low-quality noisy labels. Meanwhile, our evaluation of existing uncertainty estimation algorithms indicates their incapability in response to annotator label uncertainty. To mitigate performance degradation, prior methods show that training models with labels collected from multiple independent annotators can enhance generalizability. However, they require massive annotations. Hence, we introduce a novel perceptual quality-based model training framework to objectively generate multiple labels for model training to enhance reliability, while avoiding massive annotations. Specifically, we first select a subset of samples with low perceptual quality scores ranked by statistical regularities of visual signals. We then assign de-aggregated labels to each sample in this subset to obtain a training set with multiple labels. Our experiments and analysis demonstrate that training with the proposed framework alleviates the degradation of generalizability and prediction uncertainty caused by annotator label uncertainty.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [154]
标题:  Taiyi: A high-performance CKKS accelerator for Practical Fully  Homomorphic Encryption
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10188
作者:  Shengyu Fan,  Xianglong Deng,  Zhuoyu Tian,  Zhicheng Hu,  Liang Chang,  Rui Hou,  Dan Meng,  Mingzhe Zhang
备注:  14 pages, 15 figures
Abstract:Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE), a novel cryptographic theory enabling computation directly on ciphertext data, offers significant security benefits but is hampered by substantial performance overhead. In recent years, a series of accelerator designs have significantly enhanced the performance of FHE applications, bringing them closer to real-world applicability. However, these accelerators face challenges related to large on-chip memory and area. Additionally, FHE algorithms undergo rapid development, rendering the previous accelerator designs less perfectly adapted to the evolving landscape of optimized FHE applications. In this paper, we conducted a detailed analysis of existing applications with the new FHE method, making two key observations: 1) the bottleneck of FHE applications shifts from NTT to the inner-product operation, and 2) the optimal {\alpha} of KeySwitch changes with the decrease in multiplicative level. Based on these observations, we designed an accelerator named Taiyi, which includes specific hardware for the inner-product operation and optimizes the NTT and BConv operations through algorithmic derivation. A comparative evaluation of Taiyi against previous state-of-the-art designs reveals an average performance improvement of 1.5x and reduces the area overhead by 15.7%.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)

**编号**: [155]
标题:  Grasp Anything: Combining Teacher-Augmented Policy Gradient Learning  with Instance Segmentation to Grasp Arbitrary Objects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10187
作者:  Malte Mosbach,  Sven Behnke
备注:  
Abstract:Interactive grasping from clutter, akin to human dexterity, is one of the longest-standing problems in robot learning. Challenges stem from the intricacies of visual perception, the demand for precise motor skills, and the complex interplay between the two. In this work, we present Teacher-Augmented Policy Gradient (TAPG), a novel two-stage learning framework that synergizes reinforcement learning and policy distillation. After training a teacher policy to master the motor control based on object pose information, TAPG facilitates guided, yet adaptive, learning of a sensorimotor policy, based on object segmentation. We zero-shot transfer from simulation to a real robot by using Segment Anything Model for promptable object segmentation. Our trained policies adeptly grasp a wide variety of objects from cluttered scenarios in simulation and the real world based on human-understandable prompts. Furthermore, we show robust zero-shot transfer to novel objects. Videos of our experiments are available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [156]
标题:  Is Wireless Bad for Consensus in Blockchain?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10186
作者:  Seungmo Kim
备注:  This manuscript was accepted for publication at IEEE International Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency 2024
Abstract:This paper examines how wireless communication affects the performance of various blockchain consensus mechanisms, focusing on their scalability and decentralization. It introduces an analytical framework for quantifying these effects, backed by extensive simulations, underscoring its broad applicability to various consensus mechanisms despite wireless communication's unreliability.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [157]
标题:  Can Factual Statements be Deceptive? The DeFaBel Corpus of Belief-based  Deception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10185
作者:  Aswathy Velutharambath,  Amelie Wührl,  Roman Klinger
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:If a person firmly believes in a non-factual statement, such as "The Earth is flat", and argues in its favor, there is no inherent intention to deceive. As the argumentation stems from genuine belief, it may be unlikely to exhibit the linguistic properties associated with deception or lying. This interplay of factuality, personal belief, and intent to deceive remains an understudied area. Disentangling the influence of these variables in argumentation is crucial to gain a better understanding of the linguistic properties attributed to each of them. To study the relation between deception and factuality, based on belief, we present the DeFaBel corpus, a crowd-sourced resource of belief-based deception. To create this corpus, we devise a study in which participants are instructed to write arguments supporting statements like "eating watermelon seeds can cause indigestion", regardless of its factual accuracy or their personal beliefs about the statement. In addition to the generation task, we ask them to disclose their belief about the statement. The collected instances are labelled as deceptive if the arguments are in contradiction to the participants' personal beliefs. Each instance in the corpus is thus annotated (or implicitly labelled) with personal beliefs of the author, factuality of the statement, and the intended deceptiveness. The DeFaBel corpus contains 1031 texts in German, out of which 643 are deceptive and 388 are non-deceptive. It is the first publicly available corpus for studying deception in German. In our analysis, we find that people are more confident in the persuasiveness of their arguments when the statement is aligned with their belief, but surprisingly less confident when they are generating arguments in favor of facts. The DeFaBel corpus can be obtained from this https URL
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [158]
标题:  Lifted Causal Inference in Relational Domains
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10184
作者:  Malte Luttermann,  Mattis Hartwig,  Tanya Braun,  Ralf Möller,  Marcel Gehrke
备注:  Accepted to the Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Causal Learning and Reasoning (CLeaR-24)
Abstract:Lifted inference exploits symmetries in probabilistic graphical models by using a representative for indistinguishable objects, thereby speeding up query answering while maintaining exact answers. Even though lifting is a well-established technique for the task of probabilistic inference in relational domains, it has not yet been applied to the task of causal inference. In this paper, we show how lifting can be applied to efficiently compute causal effects in relational domains. More specifically, we introduce parametric causal factor graphs as an extension of parametric factor graphs incorporating causal knowledge and give a formal semantics of interventions therein. We further present the lifted causal inference algorithm to compute causal effects on a lifted level, thereby drastically speeding up causal inference compared to propositional inference, e.g., in causal Bayesian networks. In our empirical evaluation, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [159]
标题:  Reliable uncertainty with cheaper neural network ensembles: a case study  in industrial parts classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10182
作者:  Arthur Thuy,  Dries F. Benoit
备注:  Submitted to Annals of Operations Research
Abstract:In operations research (OR), predictive models often encounter out-of-distribution (OOD) scenarios where the data distribution differs from the training data distribution. In recent years, neural networks (NNs) are gaining traction in OR for their exceptional performance in fields such as image classification. However, NNs tend to make confident yet incorrect predictions when confronted with OOD data. Uncertainty estimation offers a solution to overconfident models, communicating when the output should (not) be trusted. Hence, reliable uncertainty quantification in NNs is crucial in the OR domain. Deep ensembles, composed of multiple independent NNs, have emerged as a promising approach, offering not only strong predictive accuracy but also reliable uncertainty estimation. However, their deployment is challenging due to substantial computational demands. Recent fundamental research has proposed more efficient NN ensembles, namely the snapshot, batch, and multi-input multi-output ensemble. This study is the first to provide a comprehensive comparison of a single NN, a deep ensemble, and the three efficient NN ensembles. In addition, we propose a Diversity Quality metric to quantify the ensembles' performance on the in-distribution and OOD sets in one single metric. The OR case study discusses industrial parts classification to identify and manage spare parts, important for timely maintenance of industrial plants. The results highlight the batch ensemble as a cost-effective and competitive alternative to the deep ensemble. It outperforms the deep ensemble in both uncertainty and accuracy while exhibiting a training time speedup of 7x, a test time speedup of 8x, and 9x memory savings.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [160]
标题:  Animate Your Motion: Turning Still Images into Dynamic Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10179
作者:  Mingxiao Li,  Bo Wan,  Marie-Francine Moens,  Tinne Tuytelaars
备注:  under review
Abstract:In recent years, diffusion models have made remarkable strides in text-to-video generation, sparking a quest for enhanced control over video outputs to more accurately reflect user intentions. Traditional efforts predominantly focus on employing either semantic cues, like images or depth maps, or motion-based conditions, like moving sketches or object bounding boxes. Semantic inputs offer a rich scene context but lack detailed motion specificity; conversely, motion inputs provide precise trajectory information but miss the broader semantic narrative. For the first time, we integrate both semantic and motion cues within a diffusion model for video generation, as demonstrated in Fig 1. To this end, we introduce the Scene and Motion Conditional Diffusion (SMCD), a novel methodology for managing multimodal inputs. It incorporates a recognized motion conditioning module and investigates various approaches to integrate scene conditions, promoting synergy between different modalities. For model training, we separate the conditions for the two modalities, introducing a two-stage training pipeline. Experimental results demonstrate that our design significantly enhances video quality, motion precision, and semantic coherence.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [161]
标题:  A Short Survey on Importance Weighting for Machine Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10175
作者:  Masanari Kimura,  Hideitsu Hino
备注:  
Abstract:Importance weighting is a fundamental procedure in statistics and machine learning that weights the objective function or probability distribution based on the importance of the instance in some sense. The simplicity and usefulness of the idea has led to many applications of importance weighting. For example, it is known that supervised learning under an assumption about the difference between the training and test distributions, called distribution shift, can guarantee statistically desirable properties through importance weighting by their density ratio. This survey summarizes the broad applications of importance weighting in machine learning and related research.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [162]
标题:  A Hybrid SNN-ANN Network for Event-based Object Detection with Spatial  and Temporal Attention
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10173
作者:  Soikat Hasan Ahmed,  Jan Finkbeiner,  Emre Neftci
备注:  
Abstract:Event cameras offer high temporal resolution and dynamic range with minimal motion blur, making them promising for object detection tasks. While Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) are a natural match for event-based sensory data and enable ultra-energy efficient and low latency inference on neuromorphic hardware, Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) tend to display more stable training dynamics and faster convergence resulting in greater task performance. Hybrid SNN-ANN approaches are a promising alternative, enabling to leverage the strengths of both SNN and ANN architectures. In this work, we introduce the first Hybrid Attention-based SNN-ANN backbone for object detection using event cameras. We propose a novel Attention-based SNN-ANN bridge module to capture sparse spatial and temporal relations from the SNN layer and convert them into dense feature maps for the ANN part of the backbone. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method surpasses baseline hybrid and SNN-based approaches by significant margins, with results comparable to existing ANN-based methods. Extensive ablation studies confirm the effectiveness of our proposed modules and architectural choices. These results pave the way toward a hybrid SNN-ANN architecture that achieves ANN like performance at a drastically reduced parameter budget. We implemented the SNN blocks on digital neuromorphic hardware to investigate latency and power consumption and demonstrate the feasibility of our approach.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [163]
标题:  Unpacking ICT-supported Social Connections and Support of Late-life  Migration: From the Lens of Social Convoys
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10172
作者:  Ying Lei,  Shuai Ma,  Yuling Sun
备注:  
Abstract:Migration and aging-related dilemmas have limited the opportunities for late-life migrants to rebuild social connections and access support. While research on migrants has drawn increasing attention in HCI, limited attention has been paid to the increasing number of late-life migrants. This paper reports a qualitative study examining the social connections and support of late-life migrants. In particular, drawing on the social convoy model, we pay specific attention to the dynamic changes of late-life migrants' social convoy, the supporting roles each convoy plays, the functions ICT plays in the process, as well as the encountered challenges and expectations of late-life migrants regarding ICT-supported social convoys. Based on these findings, we deeply discuss the role of the social convoy in supporting more targeted social support for late-life migrants, as well as broader migrant communities. Finally, we offer late-life migrant-oriented design considerations.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [164]
标题:  AUTONODE: A Neuro-Graphic Self-Learnable Engine for Cognitive GUI  Automation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10171
作者:  Arkajit Datta,  Tushar Verma,  Rajat Chawla
备注:  
Abstract:In recent advancements within the domain of Large Language Models (LLMs), there has been a notable emergence of agents capable of addressing Robotic Process Automation (RPA) challenges through enhanced cognitive capabilities and sophisticated reasoning. This development heralds a new era of scalability and human-like adaptability in goal attainment. In this context, we introduce AUTONODE (Autonomous User-interface Transformation through Online Neuro-graphic Operations and Deep Exploration). AUTONODE employs advanced neuro-graphical techniques to facilitate autonomous navigation and task execution on web interfaces, thereby obviating the necessity for predefined scripts or manual intervention. Our engine empowers agents to comprehend and implement complex workflows, adapting to dynamic web environments with unparalleled efficiency. Our methodology synergizes cognitive functionalities with robotic automation, endowing AUTONODE with the ability to learn from experience. We have integrated an exploratory module, DoRA (Discovery and mapping Operation for graph Retrieval Agent), which is instrumental in constructing a knowledge graph that the engine utilizes to optimize its actions and achieve objectives with minimal supervision. The versatility and efficacy of AUTONODE are demonstrated through a series of experiments, highlighting its proficiency in managing a diverse array of web-based tasks, ranging from data extraction to transaction processing.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [165]
标题:  Computer User Interface Understanding. A New Dataset and a Learning  Framework
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10170
作者:  Andrés Muñoz,  Daniel Borrajo
备注:  14 pages main paper, 6 pages appendix
Abstract:User Interface (UI) understanding has been an increasingly popular topic over the last few years. So far, there has been a vast focus solely on web and mobile applications. In this paper, we introduce the harder task of computer UI understanding. With the goal of enabling research in this field, we have generated a dataset with a set of videos where a user is performing a sequence of actions and each image shows the desktop contents at that time point. We also present a framework that is composed of a synthetic sample generation pipeline to augment the dataset with relevant characteristics, and a contrastive learning method to classify images in the videos. We take advantage of the natural conditional, tree-like, relationship of the images' characteristics to regularize the learning of the representations by dealing with multiple partial tasks simultaneously. Experimental results show that the proposed framework outperforms previously proposed hierarchical multi-label contrastive losses in fine-grain UI classification.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [166]
标题:  Explainability through uncertainty: Trustworthy decision-making with  neural networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10168
作者:  Arthur Thuy,  Dries F. Benoit
备注:  Accepted Manuscript version of an article published in the European Journal of Operational Research
Abstract:Uncertainty is a key feature of any machine learning model and is particularly important in neural networks, which tend to be overconfident. This overconfidence is worrying under distribution shifts, where the model performance silently degrades as the data distribution diverges from the training data distribution. Uncertainty estimation offers a solution to overconfident models, communicating when the output should (not) be trusted. Although methods for uncertainty estimation have been developed, they have not been explicitly linked to the field of explainable artificial intelligence (XAI). Furthermore, literature in operations research ignores the actionability component of uncertainty estimation and does not consider distribution shifts. This work proposes a general uncertainty framework, with contributions being threefold: (i) uncertainty estimation in ML models is positioned as an XAI technique, giving local and model-specific explanations; (ii) classification with rejection is used to reduce misclassifications by bringing a human expert in the loop for uncertain observations; (iii) the framework is applied to a case study on neural networks in educational data mining subject to distribution shifts. Uncertainty as XAI improves the model's trustworthiness in downstream decision-making tasks, giving rise to more actionable and robust machine learning systems in operations research.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [167]
标题:  Efficient Detection of Exchangeable Factors in Factor Graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10167
作者:  Malte Luttermann,  Johann Machemer,  Marcel Gehrke
备注:  Extended version of paper accepted to the Proceedings of the 37th International FLAIRS Conference (FLAIRS-24)
Abstract:To allow for tractable probabilistic inference with respect to domain sizes, lifted probabilistic inference exploits symmetries in probabilistic graphical models. However, checking whether two factors encode equivalent semantics and hence are exchangeable is computationally expensive. In this paper, we efficiently solve the problem of detecting exchangeable factors in a factor graph. In particular, we introduce the detection of exchangeable factors (DEFT) algorithm, which allows us to drastically reduce the computational effort for checking whether two factors are exchangeable in practice. While previous approaches iterate all $O(n!)$ permutations of a factor's argument list in the worst case (where $n$ is the number of arguments of the factor), we prove that DEFT efficiently identifies restrictions to drastically reduce the number of permutations and validate the efficiency of DEFT in our empirical evaluation.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [168]
标题:  SemanticHuman-HD: High-Resolution Semantic Disentangled 3D Human  Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10166
作者:  Peng Zheng,  Tao Liu,  Zili Yi,  Rui Ma
备注:  26 pages, 14 figures
Abstract:With the development of neural radiance fields and generative models, numerous methods have been proposed for learning 3D human generation from 2D images. These methods allow control over the pose of the generated 3D human and enable rendering from different viewpoints. However, none of these methods explore semantic disentanglement in human image synthesis, i.e., they can not disentangle the generation of different semantic parts, such as the body, tops, and bottoms. Furthermore, existing methods are limited to synthesize images at $512^2$ resolution due to the high computational cost of neural radiance fields. To address these limitations, we introduce SemanticHuman-HD, the first method to achieve semantic disentangled human image synthesis. Notably, SemanticHuman-HD is also the first method to achieve 3D-aware image synthesis at $1024^2$ resolution, benefiting from our proposed 3D-aware super-resolution module. By leveraging the depth maps and semantic masks as guidance for the 3D-aware super-resolution, we significantly reduce the number of sampling points during volume rendering, thereby reducing the computational cost. Our comparative experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method. The effectiveness of each proposed component is also verified through ablation studies. Moreover, our method opens up exciting possibilities for various applications, including 3D garment generation, semantic-aware image synthesis, controllable image synthesis, and out-of-domain image synthesis.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [169]
标题:  CoReEcho: Continuous Representation Learning for 2D+time  Echocardiography Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10164
作者:  Fadillah Adamsyah Maani,  Numan Saeed,  Aleksandr Matsun,  Mohammad Yaqub
备注:  
Abstract:Deep learning (DL) models have been advancing automatic medical image analysis on various modalities, including echocardiography, by offering a comprehensive end-to-end training pipeline. This approach enables DL models to regress ejection fraction (EF) directly from 2D+time echocardiograms, resulting in superior performance. However, the end-to-end training pipeline makes the learned representations less explainable. The representations may also fail to capture the continuous relation among echocardiogram clips, indicating the existence of spurious correlations, which can negatively affect the generalization. To mitigate this issue, we propose CoReEcho, a novel training framework emphasizing continuous representations tailored for direct EF regression. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that CoReEcho: 1) outperforms the current state-of-the-art (SOTA) on the largest echocardiography dataset (EchoNet-Dynamic) with MAE of 3.90 & R2 of 82.44, and 2) provides robust and generalizable features that transfer more effectively in related downstream tasks. The code is publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [170]
标题:  Online Policy Learning from Offline Preferences
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10160
作者:  Guoxi Zhang,  Han Bao,  Hisashi Kashima
备注:  
Abstract:In preference-based reinforcement learning (PbRL), a reward function is learned from a type of human feedback called preference. To expedite preference collection, recent works have leveraged \emph{offline preferences}, which are preferences collected for some offline data. In this scenario, the learned reward function is fitted on the offline data. If a learning agent exhibits behaviors that do not overlap with the offline data, the learned reward function may encounter generalizability issues. To address this problem, the present study introduces a framework that consolidates offline preferences and \emph{virtual preferences} for PbRL, which are comparisons between the agent's behaviors and the offline data. Critically, the reward function can track the agent's behaviors using the virtual preferences, thereby offering well-aligned guidance to the agent. Through experiments on continuous control tasks, this study demonstrates the effectiveness of incorporating the virtual preferences in PbRL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [171]
标题:  Functional Graph Convolutional Networks: A unified multi-task and  multi-modal learning framework to facilitate health and social-care insights
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10158
作者:  Tobia Boschi,  Francesca Bonin,  Rodrigo Ordonez-Hurtado,  Cécile Rosseau,  Alessandra Pascale,  John Dinsmore
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces a novel Functional Graph Convolutional Network (funGCN) framework that combines Functional Data Analysis and Graph Convolutional Networks to address the complexities of multi-task and multi-modal learning in digital health and longitudinal studies. With the growing importance of health solutions to improve health care and social support, ensure healthy lives, and promote well-being at all ages, funGCN offers a unified approach to handle multivariate longitudinal data for multiple entities and ensures interpretability even with small sample sizes. Key innovations include task-specific embedding components that manage different data types, the ability to perform classification, regression, and forecasting, and the creation of a knowledge graph for insightful data interpretation. The efficacy of funGCN is validated through simulation experiments and a real-data application.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [172]
标题:  Improving Medical Multi-modal Contrastive Learning with Expert  Annotations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10153
作者:  Yogesh Kumar,  Pekka Marttinen
备注:  Under review at a conference
Abstract:We introduce eCLIP, an enhanced version of the CLIP model that integrates expert annotations in the form of radiologist eye-gaze heatmaps. It tackles key challenges in contrastive multi-modal medical imaging analysis, notably data scarcity and the "modality gap" -- a significant disparity between image and text embeddings that diminishes the quality of representations and hampers cross-modal interoperability. eCLIP integrates a heatmap processor and leverages mixup augmentation to efficiently utilize the scarce expert annotations, thus boosting the model's learning effectiveness. eCLIP is designed to be generally applicable to any variant of CLIP without requiring any modifications of the core architecture. Through detailed evaluations across several tasks, including zero-shot inference, linear probing, cross-modal retrieval, and Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) of radiology reports using a frozen Large Language Model, eCLIP showcases consistent improvements in embedding quality. The outcomes reveal enhanced alignment and uniformity, affirming eCLIP's capability to harness high-quality annotations for enriched multi-modal analysis in the medical imaging domain.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [173]
标题:  GGRt: Towards Generalizable 3D Gaussians without Pose Priors in  Real-Time
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10147
作者:  Hao Li,  Yuanyuan Gao,  Dingwen Zhang,  Chenming Wu,  Yalun Dai,  Chen Zhao,  Haocheng Feng,  Errui Ding,  Jingdong Wang,  Junwei Han
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents GGRt, a novel approach to generalizable novel view synthesis that alleviates the need for real camera poses, complexity in processing high-resolution images, and lengthy optimization processes, thus facilitating stronger applicability of 3D Gaussian Splatting (3D-GS) in real-world scenarios. Specifically, we design a novel joint learning framework that consists of an Iterative Pose Optimization Network (IPO-Net) and a Generalizable 3D-Gaussians (G-3DG) model. With the joint learning mechanism, the proposed framework can inherently estimate robust relative pose information from the image observations and thus primarily alleviate the requirement of real camera poses. Moreover, we implement a deferred back-propagation mechanism that enables high-resolution training and inference, overcoming the resolution constraints of previous methods. To enhance the speed and efficiency, we further introduce a progressive Gaussian cache module that dynamically adjusts during training and inference. As the first pose-free generalizable 3D-GS framework, GGRt achieves inference at $\ge$ 5 FPS and real-time rendering at $\ge$ 100 FPS. Through extensive experimentation, we demonstrate that our method outperforms existing NeRF-based pose-free techniques in terms of inference speed and effectiveness. It can also approach the real pose-based 3D-GS methods. Our contributions provide a significant leap forward for the integration of computer vision and computer graphics into practical applications, offering state-of-the-art results on LLFF, KITTI, and Waymo Open datasets and enabling real-time rendering for immersive experiences.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [174]
标题:  Multiscale Matching Driven by Cross-Modal Similarity Consistency for  Audio-Text Retrieval
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10146
作者:  Qian Wang,  Jia-Chen Gu,  Zhen-Hua Ling
备注:  5 pages, accepted to ICASSP2024
Abstract:Audio-text retrieval (ATR), which retrieves a relevant caption given an audio clip (A2T) and vice versa (T2A), has recently attracted much research attention. Existing methods typically aggregate information from each modality into a single vector for matching, but this sacrifices local details and can hardly capture intricate relationships within and between modalities. Furthermore, current ATR datasets lack comprehensive alignment information, and simple binary contrastive learning labels overlook the measurement of fine-grained semantic differences between samples. To counter these challenges, we present a novel ATR framework that comprehensively captures the matching relationships of multimodal information from different perspectives and finer granularities. Specifically, a fine-grained alignment method is introduced, achieving a more detail-oriented matching through a multiscale process from local to global levels to capture meticulous cross-modal relationships. In addition, we pioneer the application of cross-modal similarity consistency, leveraging intra-modal similarity relationships as soft supervision to boost more intricate alignment. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our approach, outperforming previous methods by significant margins of at least 3.9% (T2A) / 6.9% (A2T) R@1 on the AudioCaps dataset and 2.9% (T2A) / 5.4% (A2T) R@1 on the Clotho dataset.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [175]
标题:  RCooper: A Real-world Large-scale Dataset for Roadside Cooperative  Perception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10145
作者:  Ruiyang Hao,  Siqi Fan,  Yingru Dai,  Zhenlin Zhang,  Chenxi Li,  Yuntian Wang,  Haibao Yu,  Wenxian Yang,  Jirui Yuan,  Zaiqing Nie
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024. 10 pages with 6 figures
Abstract:The value of roadside perception, which could extend the boundaries of autonomous driving and traffic management, has gradually become more prominent and acknowledged in recent years. However, existing roadside perception approaches only focus on the single-infrastructure sensor system, which cannot realize a comprehensive understanding of a traffic area because of the limited sensing range and blind spots. Orienting high-quality roadside perception, we need Roadside Cooperative Perception (RCooper) to achieve practical area-coverage roadside perception for restricted traffic areas. Rcooper has its own domain-specific challenges, but further exploration is hindered due to the lack of datasets. We hence release the first real-world, large-scale RCooper dataset to bloom the research on practical roadside cooperative perception, including detection and tracking. The manually annotated dataset comprises 50k images and 30k point clouds, including two representative traffic scenes (i.e., intersection and corridor). The constructed benchmarks prove the effectiveness of roadside cooperation perception and demonstrate the direction of further research. Codes and dataset can be accessed at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [176]
标题:  NLP Verification: Towards a General Methodology for Certifying  Robustness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10144
作者:  Marco Casadio,  Tanvi Dinkar,  Ekaterina Komendantskaya,  Luca Arnaboldi,  Omri Isac,  Matthew L. Daggitt,  Guy Katz,  Verena Rieser,  Oliver Lemon
备注:  
Abstract:Deep neural networks have exhibited substantial success in the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and ensuring their safety and reliability is crucial: there are safety critical contexts where such models must be robust to variability or attack, and give guarantees over their output. Unlike Computer Vision, NLP lacks a unified verification methodology and, despite recent advancements in literature, they are often light on the pragmatical issues of NLP verification. In this paper, we make an attempt to distil and evaluate general components of an NLP verification pipeline, that emerges from the progress in the field to date. Our contributions are two-fold. Firstly, we give a general characterisation of verifiable subspaces that result from embedding sentences into continuous spaces. We identify, and give an effective method to deal with, the technical challenge of semantic generalisability of verified subspaces; and propose it as a standard metric in the NLP verification pipelines (alongside with the standard metrics of model accuracy and model verifiability). Secondly, we propose a general methodology to analyse the effect of the embedding gap, a problem that refers to the discrepancy between verification of geometric subpspaces on the one hand, and semantic meaning of sentences which the geometric subspaces are supposed to represent, on the other hand. In extreme cases, poor choices in embedding of sentences may invalidate verification results. We propose a number of practical NLP methods that can help to identify the effects of the embedding gap; and in particular we propose the metric of falsifiability of semantic subpspaces as another fundamental metric to be reported as part of the NLP verification pipeline. We believe that together these general principles pave the way towards a more consolidated and effective development of this new domain.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [177]
标题:  Comparative Analysis of Programming by Demonstration Methods:  Kinesthetic Teaching vs Human Demonstration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10140
作者:  Bruno Maric,  Filip Zoric,  Frano Petric,  Matko Orsag
备注:  
Abstract:Programming by demonstration (PbD) is a simple and efficient way to program robots without explicit robot programming. PbD enables unskilled operators to easily demonstrate and guide different robots to execute task. In this paper we present comparison of demonstration methods with comprehensive user study. Each participant had to demonstrate drawing simple pattern with human demonstration using virtual marker and kinesthetic teaching with robot manipulator. To evaluate differences between demonstration methods, we conducted user study with 24 participants which filled out NASA raw task load index (rTLX) and system usability scale (SUS). We also evaluated similarity of the executed trajectories to measure difference between demonstrated and ideal trajectory. We concluded study with finding that human demonstration using a virtual marker is on average 8 times faster, superior in terms of quality and imposes 2 times less overall workload than kinesthetic teaching.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [178]
标题:  The Whole is Better than the Sum: Using Aggregated Demonstrations in  In-Context Learning for Sequential Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10135
作者:  Lei Wang,  Ee-Peng Lim
备注:  NAACL 2024 (Findings)
Abstract:Large language models (LLMs) have shown excellent performance on various NLP tasks. To use LLMs as strong sequential recommenders, we explore the in-context learning approach to sequential recommendation. We investigate the effects of instruction format, task consistency, demonstration selection, and number of demonstrations. As increasing the number of demonstrations in ICL does not improve accuracy despite using a long prompt, we propose a novel method called LLMSRec-Syn that incorporates multiple demonstration users into one aggregated demonstration. Our experiments on three recommendation datasets show that LLMSRec-Syn outperforms state-of-the-art LLM-based sequential recommendation methods. In some cases, LLMSRec-Syn can perform on par with or even better than supervised learning methods. Our code is publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [179]
标题:  E4C: Enhance Editability for Text-Based Image Editing by Harnessing  Efficient CLIP Guidance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10133
作者:  Tianrui Huang,  Pu Cao,  Lu Yang,  Chun Liu,  Mengjie Hu,  Zhiwei Liu,  Qing Song
备注:  
Abstract:Diffusion-based image editing is a composite process of preserving the source image content and generating new content or applying modifications. While current editing approaches have made improvements under text guidance, most of them have only focused on preserving the information of the input image, disregarding the importance of editability and alignment to the target prompt. In this paper, we prioritize the editability by proposing a zero-shot image editing method, named \textbf{E}nhance \textbf{E}ditability for text-based image \textbf{E}diting via \textbf{E}fficient \textbf{C}LIP guidance (\textbf{E4C}), which only requires inference-stage optimization to explicitly enhance the edibility and text alignment. Specifically, we develop a unified dual-branch feature-sharing pipeline that enables the preservation of the structure or texture of the source image while allowing the other to be adapted based on the editing task. We further integrate CLIP guidance into our pipeline by utilizing our novel random-gateway optimization mechanism to efficiently enhance the semantic alignment with the target prompt. Comprehensive quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate that our method effectively resolves the text alignment issues prevalent in existing methods while maintaining the fidelity to the source image, and performs well across a wide range of editing tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [180]
标题:  RAFT: Adapting Language Model to Domain Specific RAG
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10131
作者:  Tianjun Zhang,  Shishir G. Patil,  Naman Jain,  Sheng Shen,  Matei Zaharia,  Ion Stoica,  Joseph E. Gonzalez
备注:  
Abstract:Pretraining Large Language Models (LLMs) on large corpora of textual data is now a standard paradigm. When using these LLMs for many downstream applications, it is common to additionally bake in new knowledge (e.g., time-critical news, or private domain knowledge) into the pretrained model either through RAG-based-prompting, or fine-tuning. However, the optimal methodology for the model to gain such new knowledge remains an open question. In this paper, we present Retrieval Augmented FineTuning (RAFT), a training recipe that improves the model's ability to answer questions in a "open-book" in-domain settings. In RAFT, given a question, and a set of retrieved documents, we train the model to ignore those documents that don't help in answering the question, which we call, distractor documents. RAFT accomplishes this by citing verbatim the right sequence from the relevant document that would help answer the question. This coupled with RAFT's chain-of-thought-style response helps improve the model's ability to reason. In domain-specific RAG, RAFT consistently improves the model's performance across PubMed, HotpotQA, and Gorilla datasets, presenting a post-training recipe to improve pre-trained LLMs to in-domain RAG. RAFT's code and demo are open-sourced at this http URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [181]
标题:  TransLandSeg: A Transfer Learning Approach for Landslide Semantic  Segmentation Based on Vision Foundation Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10127
作者:  Changhong Hou,  Junchuan Yu,  Daqing Ge,  Liu Yang,  Laidian Xi,  Yunxuan Pang,  Yi Wen
备注:  
Abstract:Landslides are one of the most destructive natural disasters in the world, posing a serious threat to human life and safety. The development of foundation models has provided a new research paradigm for large-scale landslide detection. The Segment Anything Model (SAM) has garnered widespread attention in the field of image segmentation. However, our experiment found that SAM performed poorly in the task of landslide segmentation. We propose TransLandSeg, which is a transfer learning approach for landslide semantic segmentation based on a vision foundation model (VFM). TransLandSeg outperforms traditional semantic segmentation models on both the Landslide4Sense dataset and the Bijie landslide dataset. Our proposed adaptive transfer learning (ATL) architecture enables the powerful segmentation capability of SAM to be transferred to landslide detection by training only 1.3% of the number of the parameters of SAM, which greatly improves the training efficiency of the model. Finally we also conducted ablation experiments on models with different ATL structures, concluded that the deployment location and residual connection of ATL play an important role in TransLandSeg accuracy improvement.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [182]
标题:  Depth-induced Saliency Comparison Network for Diagnosis of Alzheimer's  Disease via Jointly Analysis of Visual Stimuli and Eye Movements
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10124
作者:  Yu Liu,  Wenlin Zhang,  Shaochu Wang,  Fangyu Zuo,  Peiguang Jing,  Yong Ji
备注:  
Abstract:Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is very important for following medical treatments, and eye movements under special visual stimuli may serve as a potential non-invasive biomarker for detecting cognitive abnormalities of AD patients. In this paper, we propose an Depth-induced saliency comparison network (DISCN) for eye movement analysis, which may be used for diagnosis the Alzheimers disease. In DISCN, a salient attention module fuses normal eye movements with RGB and depth maps of visual stimuli using hierarchical salient attention (SAA) to evaluate comprehensive saliency maps, which contain information from both visual stimuli and normal eye movement behaviors. In addition, we introduce serial attention module (SEA) to emphasis the most abnormal eye movement behaviors to reduce personal bias for a more robust result. According to our experiments, the DISCN achieves consistent validity in classifying the eye movements between the AD patients and normal controls.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [183]
标题:  Regularization-Based Efficient Continual Learning in Deep State-Space  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10123
作者:  Yuanhang Zhang,  Zhidi Lin,  Yiyong Sun,  Feng Yin,  Carsten Fritsche
备注:  7 pages, 14 figures
Abstract:Deep state-space models (DSSMs) have gained popularity in recent years due to their potent modeling capacity for dynamic systems. However, existing DSSM works are limited to single-task modeling, which requires retraining with historical task data upon revisiting a forepassed task. To address this limitation, we propose continual learning DSSMs (CLDSSMs), which are capable of adapting to evolving tasks without catastrophic forgetting. Our proposed CLDSSMs integrate mainstream regularization-based continual learning (CL) methods, ensuring efficient updates with constant computational and memory costs for modeling multiple dynamic systems. We also conduct a comprehensive cost analysis of each CL method applied to the respective CLDSSMs, and demonstrate the efficacy of CLDSSMs through experiments on real-world datasets. The results corroborate that while various competing CL methods exhibit different merits, the proposed CLDSSMs consistently outperform traditional DSSMs in terms of effectively addressing catastrophic forgetting, enabling swift and accurate parameter transfer to new tasks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [184]
标题:  A Novel Bioinspired Neuromorphic Vision-based Tactile Sensor for Fast  Tactile Perception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10120
作者:  Omar Faris,  Mohammad I. Awad,  Murana A. Awad,  Yahya Zweiri,  Kinda Khalaf
备注:  9 pages, 10 figures, journal
Abstract:Tactile sensing represents a crucial technique that can enhance the performance of robotic manipulators in various tasks. This work presents a novel bioinspired neuromorphic vision-based tactile sensor that uses an event-based camera to quickly capture and convey information about the interactions between robotic manipulators and their environment. The camera in the sensor observes the deformation of a flexible skin manufactured from a cheap and accessible 3D printed material, whereas a 3D printed rigid casing houses the components of the sensor together. The sensor is tested in a grasping stage classification task involving several objects using a data-driven learning-based approach. The results show that the proposed approach enables the sensor to detect pressing and slip incidents within a speed of 2 ms. The fast tactile perception properties of the proposed sensor makes it an ideal candidate for safe grasping of different objects in industries that involve high-speed pick-and-place operations.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [185]
标题:  URS-NeRF: Unordered Rolling Shutter Bundle Adjustment for Neural  Radiance Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10119
作者:  Bo Xu,  Ziao Liu,  Mengqi Guo,  Jiancheng Li,  Gim Hee Li
备注:  
Abstract:We propose a novel rolling shutter bundle adjustment method for neural radiance fields (NeRF), which utilizes the unordered rolling shutter (RS) images to obtain the implicit 3D representation. Existing NeRF methods suffer from low-quality images and inaccurate initial camera poses due to the RS effect in the image, whereas, the previous method that incorporates the RS into NeRF requires strict sequential data input, limiting its widespread applicability. In constant, our method recovers the physical formation of RS images by estimating camera poses and velocities, thereby removing the input constraints on sequential data. Moreover, we adopt a coarse-to-fine training strategy, in which the RS epipolar constraints of the pairwise frames in the scene graph are used to detect the camera poses that fall into local minima. The poses detected as outliers are corrected by the interpolation method with neighboring poses. The experimental results validate the effectiveness of our method over state-of-the-art works and demonstrate that the reconstruction of 3D representations is not constrained by the requirement of video sequence input.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [186]
标题:  CyberMoraba: A game-based approach enhancing cybersecurity awareness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10118
作者:  Mike Nkongolo
备注:  Accepted at the 19th International Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security (ICCWS), 26 - 27 March 2024, Johannesburg, South Africa
Abstract:Numerous studies confirm Cybersecurity Awareness Games (CAGs) effectively bolster organisational security against cyberattacks. This article introduces a serious CAG, integrating the traditional South African Morabaraba board game into cybersecurity education. Players adopt roles of defenders or attackers, strategically placing tokens to enhance awareness. Evaluation shows positive outcomes, enhancing understanding and enjoyment among participants.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [187]
标题:  Do Visual-Language Maps Capture Latent Semantics?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10117
作者:  Matti Pekkanen,  Tsvetomila Mihaylova,  Francesco Verdoja,  Ville Kyrki
备注:  Sumitted to IEEE-IROS-2024
Abstract:Visual-language models (VLMs) have recently been introduced in robotic mapping by using the latent representations, i.e., embeddings, of the VLMs to represent the natural language semantics in the map. The main benefit is moving beyond a small set of human-created labels toward open-vocabulary scene understanding. While there is anecdotal evidence that maps built this way support downstream tasks, such as navigation, rigorous analysis of the quality of the maps using these embeddings is lacking. We investigate two critical properties of map quality: queryability and consistency. The evaluation of queryability addresses the ability to retrieve information from the embeddings. We investigate two aspects of consistency: intra-map consistency and inter-map consistency. Intra-map consistency captures the ability of the embeddings to represent abstract semantic classes, and inter-map consistency captures the generalization properties of the representation. In this paper, we propose a way to analyze the quality of maps created using VLMs, which forms an open-source benchmark to be used when proposing new open-vocabulary map representations. We demonstrate the benchmark by evaluating the maps created by two state-of-the-art methods, VLMaps and OpenScene, using two encoders, LSeg and OpenSeg, using real-world data from the Matterport3D data set. We find that OpenScene outperforms VLMaps with both encoders, and LSeg outperforms OpenSeg with both methods.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [188]
标题:  Instance-optimal Clipping for Summation Problems in the Shuffle Model of  Differential Privacy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10116
作者:  Wei Dong,  Qiyao Luo,  Giulia Fanti,  Elaine Shi,  Ke Yi
备注:  
Abstract:Differentially private mechanisms achieving worst-case optimal error bounds (e.g., the classical Laplace mechanism) are well-studied in the literature. However, when typical data are far from the worst case, \emph{instance-specific} error bounds -- which depend on the largest value in the dataset -- are more meaningful. For example, consider the sum estimation problem, where each user has an integer $x_i$ from the domain $\{0,1,\dots,U\}$ and we wish to estimate $\sum_i x_i$. This has a worst-case optimal error of $O(U/\varepsilon)$, while recent work has shown that the clipping mechanism can achieve an instance-optimal error of $O(\max_i x_i \cdot \log\log U /\varepsilon)$. Under the shuffle model, known instance-optimal protocols are less communication-efficient. The clipping mechanism also works in the shuffle model, but requires two rounds: Round one finds the clipping threshold, and round two does the clipping and computes the noisy sum of the clipped data. In this paper, we show how these two seemingly sequential steps can be done simultaneously in one round using just $1+o(1)$ messages per user, while maintaining the instance-optimal error bound. We also extend our technique to the high-dimensional sum estimation problem and sparse vector aggregation (a.k.a. frequency estimation under user-level differential privacy). Our experiments show order-of-magnitude improvements of our protocols in terms of error compared with prior work.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [189]
标题:  Single- and Multi-Agent Private Active Sensing: A Deep Neuroevolution  Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10112
作者:  George Stamatelis,  Angelos-Nikolaos Kanatas,  Ioannis Asprogerakas,  George C. Alexandropoulos
备注:  7 pages, 5 figures, accepted at IEEE ICC 2024 (to be presented)
Abstract:In this paper, we focus on one centralized and one decentralized problem of active hypothesis testing in the presence of an eavesdropper. For the centralized problem including a single legitimate agent, we present a new framework based on NeuroEvolution (NE), whereas, for the decentralized problem, we develop a novel NE-based method for solving collaborative multi-agent tasks, which interestingly maintains all computational benefits of single-agent NE. The superiority of the proposed EAHT approaches over conventional active hypothesis testing policies, as well as learning-based methods, is validated through numerical investigations in an example use case of anomaly detection over wireless sensor networks.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [190]
标题:  Meta Operator for Complex Query Answering on Knowledge Graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10110
作者:  Hang Yin,  Zihao Wang,  Yangqiu Song
备注:  
Abstract:Knowledge graphs contain informative factual knowledge but are considered incomplete. To answer complex queries under incomplete knowledge, learning-based Complex Query Answering (CQA) models are proposed to directly learn from the query-answer samples to avoid the direct traversal of incomplete graph data. Existing works formulate the training of complex query answering models as multi-task learning and require a large number of training samples. In this work, we explore the compositional structure of complex queries and argue that the different logical operator types, rather than the different complex query types, are the key to improving generalizability. Accordingly, we propose a meta-learning algorithm to learn the meta-operators with limited data and adapt them to different instances of operators under various complex queries. Empirical results show that learning meta-operators is more effective than learning original CQA or meta-CQA models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [191]
标题:  Autonomous Monitoring of Pharmaceutical R&D Laboratories with 6 Axis Arm  Equipped Quadruped Robot and Generative AI: A Preliminary Study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10108
作者:  Shunichi Hato,  Nozomi Ogawa
备注:  8 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:This paper presents a proof-of-concept study that examines the utilization of generative AI and mobile robotics for autonomous laboratory monitoring in the pharmaceutical R&D laboratory. The study investigates the potential advantages of anomaly detection and automated reporting by multi-modal model and Vision Foundation Model (VFM), which have the potential to enhance compliance and safety in laboratory environments. Additionally, the paper discusses the current limitations of the generative AI approach and proposes future directions for its application in lab monitoring.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [192]
标题:  Enhancing Human-Centered Dynamic Scene Understanding via Multiple LLMs  Collaborated Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10107
作者:  Hang Zhang,  Wenxiao Zhang,  Haoxuan Qu,  Jun Liu
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible
Abstract:Human-centered dynamic scene understanding plays a pivotal role in enhancing the capability of robotic and autonomous systems, in which Video-based Human-Object Interaction (V-HOI) detection is a crucial task in semantic scene understanding, aimed at comprehensively understanding HOI relationships within a video to benefit the behavioral decisions of mobile robots and autonomous driving systems. Although previous V-HOI detection models have made significant strides in accurate detection on specific datasets, they still lack the general reasoning ability like human beings to effectively induce HOI relationships. In this study, we propose V-HOI Multi-LLMs Collaborated Reasoning (V-HOI MLCR), a novel framework consisting of a series of plug-and-play modules that could facilitate the performance of current V-HOI detection models by leveraging the strong reasoning ability of different off-the-shelf pre-trained large language models (LLMs). We design a two-stage collaboration system of different LLMs for the V-HOI task. Specifically, in the first stage, we design a Cross-Agents Reasoning scheme to leverage the LLM conduct reasoning from different aspects. In the second stage, we perform Multi-LLMs Debate to get the final reasoning answer based on the different knowledge in different LLMs. Additionally, we devise an auxiliary training strategy that utilizes CLIP, a large vision-language model to enhance the base V-HOI models' discriminative ability to better cooperate with LLMs. We validate the superiority of our design by demonstrating its effectiveness in improving the prediction accuracy of the base V-HOI model via reasoning from multiple perspectives.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [193]
标题:  Belief Aided Navigation using Bayesian Reinforcement Learning for  Avoiding Humans in Blind Spots
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10105
作者:  Jinyeob Kim,  Daewon Kwak,  Hyunwoo Rim,  Donghan Kim
备注:  8 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Recent research on mobile robot navigation has focused on socially aware navigation in crowded environments. However, existing methods do not adequately account for human robot interactions and demand accurate location information from omnidirectional sensors, rendering them unsuitable for practical applications. In response to this need, this study introduces a novel algorithm, BNBRL+, predicated on the partially observable Markov decision process framework to assess risks in unobservable areas and formulate movement strategies under uncertainty. BNBRL+ consolidates belief algorithms with Bayesian neural networks to probabilistically infer beliefs based on the positional data of humans. It further integrates the dynamics between the robot, humans, and inferred beliefs to determine the navigation paths and embeds social norms within the reward function, thereby facilitating socially aware navigation. Through experiments in various risk laden scenarios, this study validates the effectiveness of BNBRL+ in navigating crowded environments with blind spots. The model's ability to navigate effectively in spaces with limited visibility and avoid obstacles dynamically can significantly improve the safety and reliability of autonomous vehicles.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [194]
标题:  CSDNet: Detect Salient Object in Depth-Thermal via A Lightweight Cross  Shallow and Deep Perception Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10104
作者:  Xiaotong Yu,  Ruihan Xie,  Zhihe Zhao,  Chang-Wen Chen
备注:  
Abstract:While we enjoy the richness and informativeness of multimodal data, it also introduces interference and redundancy of information. To achieve optimal domain interpretation with limited resources, we propose CSDNet, a lightweight \textbf{C}ross \textbf{S}hallow and \textbf{D}eep Perception \textbf{Net}work designed to integrate two modalities with less coherence, thereby discarding redundant information or even modality. We implement our CSDNet for Salient Object Detection (SOD) task in robotic perception. The proposed method capitalises on spatial information prescreening and implicit coherence navigation across shallow and deep layers of the depth-thermal (D-T) modality, prioritising integration over fusion to maximise the scene interpretation. To further refine the descriptive capabilities of the encoder for the less-known D-T modalities, we also propose SAMAEP to guide an effective feature mapping to the generalised feature space. Our approach is tested on the VDT-2048 dataset, leveraging the D-T modality outperforms those of SOTA methods using RGB-T or RGB-D modalities for the first time, achieves comparable performance with the RGB-D-T triple-modality benchmark method with 5.97 times faster at runtime and demanding 0.0036 times fewer FLOPs. Demonstrates the proposed CSDNet effectively integrates the information from the D-T modality. The code will be released upon acceptance.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [195]
标题:  DyBluRF: Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields from Blurry Monocular Video
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10103
作者:  Huiqiang Sun,  Xingyi Li,  Liao Shen,  Xinyi Ye,  Ke Xian,  Zhiguo Cao
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in dynamic neural radiance field methods have yielded remarkable outcomes. However, these approaches rely on the assumption of sharp input images. When faced with motion blur, existing dynamic NeRF methods often struggle to generate high-quality novel views. In this paper, we propose DyBluRF, a dynamic radiance field approach that synthesizes sharp novel views from a monocular video affected by motion blur. To account for motion blur in input images, we simultaneously capture the camera trajectory and object Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) trajectories within the scene. Additionally, we employ a global cross-time rendering approach to ensure consistent temporal coherence across the entire scene. We curate a dataset comprising diverse dynamic scenes that are specifically tailored for our task. Experimental results on our dataset demonstrate that our method outperforms existing approaches in generating sharp novel views from motion-blurred inputs while maintaining spatial-temporal consistency of the scene.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [196]
标题:  Agile and Safe Trajectory Planning for Quadruped Navigation with Motion  Anisotropy Awareness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10101
作者:  Wentao Zhang,  Shaohang Xu,  Peiyuan Cai,  Lijun Zhu
备注:  8 pages, 6 figures, submitted to 2024 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)
Abstract:Quadruped robots demonstrate robust and agile movements in various terrains; however, their navigation autonomy is still insufficient. One of the challenges is that the motion capabilities of the quadruped robot are anisotropic along different directions, which significantly affects the safety of quadruped robot navigation. This paper proposes a navigation framework that takes into account the motion anisotropy of quadruped robots including kinodynamic trajectory generation, nonlinear trajectory optimization, and nonlinear model predictive control. In simulation and real robot tests, we demonstrate that our motion-anisotropy-aware navigation framework could: (1) generate more efficient trajectories and realize more agile quadruped navigation; (2) significantly improve the navigation safety in challenging scenarios. The implementation is realized as an open-source package at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [197]
标题:  Efficient Multiplayer Battle Game Optimizer for Adversarial Robust  Neural Architecture Search
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10100
作者:  Rui Zhong,  Yuefeng Xu,  Chao Zhang,  Jun Yu
备注:  33 pages
Abstract:This paper introduces a novel metaheuristic algorithm, known as the efficient multiplayer battle game optimizer (EMBGO), specifically designed for addressing complex numerical optimization tasks. The motivation behind this research stems from the need to rectify identified shortcomings in the original MBGO, particularly in search operators during the movement phase, as revealed through ablation experiments. EMBGO mitigates these limitations by integrating the movement and battle phases to simplify the original optimization framework and improve search efficiency. Besides, two efficient search operators: differential mutation and Lévy flight are introduced to increase the diversity of the population. To evaluate the performance of EMBGO comprehensively and fairly, numerical experiments are conducted on benchmark functions such as CEC2017, CEC2020, and CEC2022, as well as engineering problems. Twelve well-established MA approaches serve as competitor algorithms for comparison. Furthermore, we apply the proposed EMBGO to the complex adversarial robust neural architecture search (ARNAS) tasks and explore its robustness and scalability. The experimental results and statistical analyses confirm the efficiency and effectiveness of EMBGO across various optimization tasks. As a potential optimization technique, EMBGO holds promise for diverse applications in real-world problems and deep learning scenarios. The source code of EMBGO is made available in \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [198]
标题:  KP-RED: Exploiting Semantic Keypoints for Joint 3D Shape Retrieval and  Deformation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10099
作者:  Ruida Zhang,  Chenyangguang Zhang,  Yan Di,  Fabian Manhardt,  Xingyu Liu,  Federico Tombari,  Xiangyang Ji
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:In this paper, we present KP-RED, a unified KeyPoint-driven REtrieval and Deformation framework that takes object scans as input and jointly retrieves and deforms the most geometrically similar CAD models from a pre-processed database to tightly match the target. Unlike existing dense matching based methods that typically struggle with noisy partial scans, we propose to leverage category-consistent sparse keypoints to naturally handle both full and partial object scans. Specifically, we first employ a lightweight retrieval module to establish a keypoint-based embedding space, measuring the similarity among objects by dynamically aggregating deformation-aware local-global features around extracted keypoints. Objects that are close in the embedding space are considered similar in geometry. Then we introduce the neural cage-based deformation module that estimates the influence vector of each keypoint upon cage vertices inside its local support region to control the deformation of the retrieved shape. Extensive experiments on the synthetic dataset PartNet and the real-world dataset Scan2CAD demonstrate that KP-RED surpasses existing state-of-the-art approaches by a large margin. Codes and trained models will be released in this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [199]
标题:  DiffMAC: Diffusion Manifold Hallucination Correction for High  Generalization Blind Face Restoration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10098
作者:  Nan Gao,  Jia Li,  Huaibo Huang,  Zhi Zeng,  Ke Shang,  Shuwu Zhang,  Ran He
备注:  15 pages, 12 figures
Abstract:Blind face restoration (BFR) is a highly challenging problem due to the uncertainty of degradation patterns. Current methods have low generalization across photorealistic and heterogeneous domains. In this paper, we propose a Diffusion-Information-Diffusion (DID) framework to tackle diffusion manifold hallucination correction (DiffMAC), which achieves high-generalization face restoration in diverse degraded scenes and heterogeneous domains. Specifically, the first diffusion stage aligns the restored face with spatial feature embedding of the low-quality face based on AdaIN, which synthesizes degradation-removal results but with uncontrollable artifacts for some hard cases. Based on Stage I, Stage II considers information compression using manifold information bottleneck (MIB) and finetunes the first diffusion model to improve facial fidelity. DiffMAC effectively fights against blind degradation patterns and synthesizes high-quality faces with attribute and identity consistencies. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of DiffMAC over state-of-the-art methods, with a high degree of generalization in real-world and heterogeneous settings. The source code and models will be public.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [200]
标题:  Adaptive Random Feature Regularization on Fine-tuning Deep Neural  Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10097
作者:  Shin'ya Yamaguchi,  Sekitoshi Kanai,  Kazuki Adachi,  Daiki Chijiwa
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:While fine-tuning is a de facto standard method for training deep neural networks, it still suffers from overfitting when using small target datasets. Previous methods improve fine-tuning performance by maintaining knowledge of the source datasets or introducing regularization terms such as contrastive loss. However, these methods require auxiliary source information (e.g., source labels or datasets) or heavy additional computations. In this paper, we propose a simple method called adaptive random feature regularization (AdaRand). AdaRand helps the feature extractors of training models to adaptively change the distribution of feature vectors for downstream classification tasks without auxiliary source information and with reasonable computation costs. To this end, AdaRand minimizes the gap between feature vectors and random reference vectors that are sampled from class conditional Gaussian distributions. Furthermore, AdaRand dynamically updates the conditional distribution to follow the currently updated feature extractors and balance the distance between classes in feature spaces. Our experiments show that AdaRand outperforms the other fine-tuning regularization, which requires auxiliary source information and heavy computation costs.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [201]
标题:  RangeLDM: Fast Realistic LiDAR Point Cloud Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10094
作者:  Qianjiang Hu,  Zhimin Zhang,  Wei Hu
备注:  
Abstract:Autonomous driving demands high-quality LiDAR data, yet the cost of physical LiDAR sensors presents a significant scaling-up challenge. While recent efforts have explored deep generative models to address this issue, they often consume substantial computational resources with slow generation speeds while suffering from a lack of realism. To address these limitations, we introduce RangeLDM, a novel approach for rapidly generating high-quality range-view LiDAR point clouds via latent diffusion models. We achieve this by correcting range-view data distribution for accurate projection from point clouds to range images via Hough voting, which has a critical impact on generative learning. We then compress the range images into a latent space with a variational autoencoder, and leverage a diffusion model to enhance expressivity. Additionally, we instruct the model to preserve 3D structural fidelity by devising a range-guided discriminator. Experimental results on KITTI-360 and nuScenes datasets demonstrate both the robust expressiveness and fast speed of our LiDAR point cloud generation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [202]
标题:  Specification and Enforcement of Activity Dependency Policies using  XACML
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10092
作者:  Tanjila Mawla,  Maanak Gupta,  Ravi Sandhu
备注:  10 pages, Accepted by ISSSR 2024 (The 10th International Symposium on System Security, Safety, and Reliability) sponsored by the IEEE Reliability Society
Abstract:The evolving smart and interconnected systems are designed to operate with minimal human intervention. Devices within these smart systems often engage in prolonged operations based on sensor data and contextual factors. Recently, an Activity-Centric Access Control (ACAC) model has been introduced to regulate these prolonged operations, referred to as activities, which undergo state changes over extended duration of time. Dependencies among different activities can influence and restrict the execution of one another, necessitating active and real-time monitoring of the dependencies between activities to prevent security violation. In the ACAC model, the activity dependencies, denoted as "D", is considered as a decision parameter for controlling a requested activity. These dependencies must be evaluated throughout all phases of an activity's life cycle. To ensure the consistency of access control rules across diverse domains and applications, a standard policy language is essential. We propose a policy framework adapting the widely-used eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML) , referred to as $\mathrm{XACML_{AD}}$, to specify the activity dependency policies. This work involves extending the syntax and semantics of XACML by introducing new elements to check dependent activities' states and handle state updates on dependent activities. In addition to the language extension, we present the enforcement architecture and data flow model of evaluating policies for activity dependencies. The integration of the proposed $\mathrm{XACML_{AD}}$ policy framework and the enforcement of the policies supports dependency evaluation, necessary updates and continuous enforcement of policies to control an activity throughout its life cycle. We implement the enforcement architecture exploiting the $\mathrm{XACML_{AD}}$ policy framework and discuss the performance evaluation results.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [203]
标题:  Approximation and bounding techniques for the Fisher-Rao distances
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10089
作者:  Frank Nielsen
备注:  38 pages
Abstract:The Fisher-Rao distance between two probability distributions of a statistical model is defined as the Riemannian geodesic distance induced by the Fisher information metric. In order to calculate the Fisher-Rao distance in closed-form, we need (1) to elicit a formula for the Fisher-Rao geodesics, and (2) to integrate the Fisher length element along those geodesics. We consider several numerically robust approximation and bounding techniques for the Fisher-Rao distances: First, we report generic upper bounds on Fisher-Rao distances based on closed-form 1D Fisher-Rao distances of submodels. Second, we describe several generic approximation schemes depending on whether the Fisher-Rao geodesics or pregeodesics are available in closed-form or not. In particular, we obtain a generic method to guarantee an arbitrarily small additive error on the approximation provided that Fisher-Rao pregeodesics and tight lower and upper bounds are available. Third, we consider the case of Fisher metrics being Hessian metrics, and report generic tight upper bounds on the Fisher-Rao distances using techniques of information geometry. Uniparametric and biparametric statistical models always have Fisher Hessian metrics, and in general a simple test allows to check whether the Fisher information matrix yields a Hessian metric or not. Fourth, we consider elliptical distribution families and show how to apply the above techniques to these models. We also propose two new distances based either on the Fisher-Rao lengths of curves serving as proxies of Fisher-Rao geodesics, or based on the Birkhoff/Hilbert projective cone distance. Last, we consider an alternative group-theoretic approach for statistical transformation models based on the notion of maximal invariant which yields insights on the structures of the Fisher-Rao distance formula which may be used fruitfully in applications.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [204]
标题:  Intent-conditioned and Non-toxic Counterspeech Generation using  Multi-Task Instruction Tuning with RLAIF
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10088
作者:  Amey Hengle,  Aswini Kumar,  Sahajpreet Singh,  Anil Bandhakavi,  Md Shad Akhtar,  Tanmoy Chakroborty
备注:  
Abstract:Counterspeech, defined as a response to mitigate online hate speech, is increasingly used as a non-censorial solution. Addressing hate speech effectively involves dispelling the stereotypes, prejudices, and biases often subtly implied in brief, single-sentence statements or abuses. These implicit expressions challenge language models, especially in seq2seq tasks, as model performance typically excels with longer contexts. Our study introduces CoARL, a novel framework enhancing counterspeech generation by modeling the pragmatic implications underlying social biases in hateful statements. CoARL's first two phases involve sequential multi-instruction tuning, teaching the model to understand intents, reactions, and harms of offensive statements, and then learning task-specific low-rank adapter weights for generating intent-conditioned counterspeech. The final phase uses reinforcement learning to fine-tune outputs for effectiveness and non-toxicity. CoARL outperforms existing benchmarks in intent-conditioned counterspeech generation, showing an average improvement of 3 points in intent-conformity and 4 points in argument-quality metrics. Extensive human evaluation supports CoARL's efficacy in generating superior and more context-appropriate responses compared to existing systems, including prominent LLMs like ChatGPT.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [205]
标题:  Monkeypox disease recognition model based on improved SE-InceptionV3
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10087
作者:  Junzhuo Chen,  Zonghan Lu,  Shitong Kang
备注:  
Abstract:In the wake of the global spread of monkeypox, accurate disease recognition has become crucial. This study introduces an improved SE-InceptionV3 model, embedding the SENet module and incorporating L2 regularization into the InceptionV3 framework to enhance monkeypox disease detection. Utilizing the Kaggle monkeypox dataset, which includes images of monkeypox and similar skin conditions, our model demonstrates a noteworthy accuracy of 96.71% on the test set, outperforming conventional methods and deep learning models. The SENet modules channel attention mechanism significantly elevates feature representation, while L2 regularization ensures robust generalization. Extensive experiments validate the models superiority in precision, recall, and F1 score, highlighting its effectiveness in differentiating monkeypox lesions in diverse and complex cases. The study not only provides insights into the application of advanced CNN architectures in medical diagnostics but also opens avenues for further research in model optimization and hyperparameter tuning for enhanced disease recognition. this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [206]
标题:  Large Language Models to Generate System-Level Test Programs Targeting  Non-functional Properties
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10086
作者:  Denis Schwachhofer,  Peter Domanski,  Steffen Becker,  Stefan Wagner,  Matthias Sauer,  Dirk Pflüger,  Ilia Polian
备注:  Testmethoden und Zuverl\"assigkeit von Schaltungen und Systemen, TuZ 2024
Abstract:System-Level Test (SLT) has been a part of the test flow for integrated circuits for over a decade and still gains importance. However, no systematic approaches exist for test program generation, especially targeting non-functional properties of the Device under Test (DUT). Currently, test engineers manually compose test suites from off-the-shelf software, approximating the end-user environment of the DUT. This is a challenging and tedious task that does not guarantee sufficient control over non-functional properties. This paper proposes Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate test programs. We take a first glance at how pre-trained LLMs perform in test program generation to optimize non-functional properties of the DUT. Therefore, we write a prompt to generate C code snippets that maximize the instructions per cycle of a super-scalar, out-of-order architecture in simulation. Additionally, we apply prompt and hyperparameter optimization to achieve the best possible results without further training.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [207]
标题:  VRHCF: Cross-Source Point Cloud Registration via Voxel Representation  and Hierarchical Correspondence Filtering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10085
作者:  Guiyu Zhao,  Zewen Du,  Zhentao Guo,  Hongbin Ma
备注:  Accepted by IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME), 2024
Abstract:Addressing the challenges posed by the substantial gap in point cloud data collected from diverse sensors, achieving robust cross-source point cloud registration becomes a formidable task. In response, we present a novel framework for point cloud registration with broad applicability, suitable for both homologous and cross-source registration scenarios. To tackle the issues arising from different densities and distributions in cross-source point cloud data, we introduce a feature representation based on spherical voxels. Furthermore, addressing the challenge of numerous outliers and mismatches in cross-source registration, we propose a hierarchical correspondence filtering approach. This method progressively filters out mismatches, yielding a set of high-quality correspondences. Our method exhibits versatile applicability and excels in both traditional homologous registration and challenging cross-source registration scenarios. Specifically, in homologous registration using the 3DMatch dataset, we achieve the highest registration recall of 95.1% and an inlier ratio of 87.8%. In cross-source point cloud registration, our method attains the best RR on the 3DCSR dataset, demonstrating a 9.3 percentage points improvement. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [208]
标题:  HeR-DRL:Heterogeneous Relational Deep Reinforcement Learning for  Decentralized Multi-Robot Crowd Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10083
作者:  Xinyu Zhou,  Songhao Piao,  Wenzheng Chi,  Liguo Chen,  Wei Li
备注:  
Abstract:Crowd navigation has received significant research attention in recent years, especially DRL-based methods. While single-robot crowd scenarios have dominated research, they offer limited applicability to real-world complexities. The heterogeneity of interaction among multiple agent categories, like in decentralized multi-robot pedestrian scenarios, are frequently disregarded. This "interaction blind spot" hinders generalizability and restricts progress towards robust navigation algorithms. In this paper, we propose a heterogeneous relational deep reinforcement learning(HeR-DRL), based on customised heterogeneous GNN, in order to improve navigation strategies in decentralized multi-robot crowd navigation. Firstly, we devised a method for constructing robot-crowd heterogenous relation graph that effectively simulates the heterogeneous pair-wise interaction relationships. We proposed a new heterogeneous graph neural network for transferring and aggregating the heterogeneous state information. Finally, we incorporate the encoded information into deep reinforcement learning to explore the optimal policy. HeR-DRL are rigorously evaluated through comparing it to state-of-the-art algorithms in both single-robot and multi-robot circle crowssing scenario. The experimental results demonstrate that HeR-DRL surpasses the state-of-the-art approaches in overall performance, particularly excelling in safety and comfort metrics. This underscores the significance of interaction heterogeneity for crowd navigation. The source code will be publicly released in this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [209]
标题:  CrossGLG: LLM Guides One-shot Skeleton-based 3D Action Recognition in a  Cross-level Manner
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10082
作者:  Tingbing Yan,  Wenzheng Zeng,  Yang Xiao,  Xingyu Tong,  Bo Tan,  Zhiwen Fang,  Zhiguo Cao,  Joey Tianyi Zhou
备注:  
Abstract:Most existing one-shot skeleton-based action recognition focuses on raw low-level information (e.g., joint location), and may suffer from local information loss and low generalization ability. To alleviate these, we propose to leverage text description generated from large language models (LLM) that contain high-level human knowledge, to guide feature learning, in a global-local-global way. Particularly, during training, we design $2$ prompts to gain global and local text descriptions of each action from an LLM. We first utilize the global text description to guide the skeleton encoder focus on informative joints (i.e.,global-to-local). Then we build non-local interaction between local text and joint features, to form the final global representation (i.e., local-to-global). To mitigate the asymmetry issue between the training and inference phases, we further design a dual-branch architecture that allows the model to perform novel class inference without any text input, also making the additional inference cost neglectable compared with the base skeleton encoder. Extensive experiments on three different benchmarks show that CrossGLG consistently outperforms the existing SOTA methods with large margins, and the inference cost (model size) is only $2.8$\% than the previous SOTA. CrossGLG can also serve as a plug-and-play module that can substantially enhance the performance of different SOTA skeleton encoders with a neglectable cost during inference. The source code will be released soon.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [210]
标题:  DRAGIN: Dynamic Retrieval Augmented Generation based on the Real-time  Information Needs of Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10081
作者:  Weihang Su,  Yichen Tang,  Qingyao Ai,  Zhijing Wu,  Yiqun Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Dynamic retrieval augmented generation (RAG) paradigm actively decides when and what to retrieve during the text generation process of Large Language Models (LLMs). There are two key elements of this paradigm: identifying the optimal moment to activate the retrieval module (deciding when to retrieve) and crafting the appropriate query once retrieval is triggered (determining what to retrieve). However, current dynamic RAG methods fall short in both aspects. Firstly, the strategies for deciding when to retrieve often rely on static rules. Moreover, the strategies for deciding what to retrieve typically limit themselves to the LLM's most recent sentence or the last few tokens, while the LLM's real-time information needs may span across the entire context. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a new framework, DRAGIN, i.e., Dynamic Retrieval Augmented Generation based on the real-time Information Needs of LLMs. Our framework is specifically designed to make decisions on when and what to retrieve based on the LLM's real-time information needs during the text generation process. We evaluate DRAGIN along with existing methods comprehensively over 4 knowledge-intensive generation datasets. Experimental results show that DRAGIN achieves superior performance on all tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of our method. We have open-sourced all the code, data, and models in GitHub: this https URL
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [211]
标题:  Learning Physical Dynamics for Object-centric Visual Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10079
作者:  Huilin Xu,  Tao Chen,  Feng Xu
备注:  13 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:The ability to model the underlying dynamics of visual scenes and reason about the future is central to human intelligence. Many attempts have been made to empower intelligent systems with such physical understanding and prediction abilities. However, most existing methods focus on pixel-to-pixel prediction, which suffers from heavy computational costs while lacking a deep understanding of the physical dynamics behind videos. Recently, object-centric prediction methods have emerged and attracted increasing interest. Inspired by it, this paper proposes an unsupervised object-centric prediction model that makes future predictions by learning visual dynamics between objects. Our model consists of two modules, perceptual, and dynamic module. The perceptual module is utilized to decompose images into several objects and synthesize images with a set of object-centric representations. The dynamic module fuses contextual information, takes environment-object and object-object interaction into account, and predicts the future trajectory of objects. Extensive experiments are conducted to validate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Both quantitative and qualitative experimental results demonstrate that our model generates higher visual quality and more physically reliable predictions compared to the state-of-the-art methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [212]
标题:  Benchmarking Adversarial Robustness of Image Shadow Removal with  Shadow-adaptive Attacks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10076
作者:  Chong Wang,  Yi Yu,  Lanqing Guo,  Bihan Wen
备注:  Accepted to ICASSP 2024
Abstract:Shadow removal is a task aimed at erasing regional shadows present in images and reinstating visually pleasing natural scenes with consistent illumination. While recent deep learning techniques have demonstrated impressive performance in image shadow removal, their robustness against adversarial attacks remains largely unexplored. Furthermore, many existing attack frameworks typically allocate a uniform budget for perturbations across the entire input image, which may not be suitable for attacking shadow images. This is primarily due to the unique characteristic of spatially varying illumination within shadow images. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, called shadow-adaptive adversarial attack. Different from standard adversarial attacks, our attack budget is adjusted based on the pixel intensity in different regions of shadow images. Consequently, the optimized adversarial noise in the shadowed regions becomes visually less perceptible while permitting a greater tolerance for perturbations in non-shadow regions. The proposed shadow-adaptive attacks naturally align with the varying illumination distribution in shadow images, resulting in perturbations that are less conspicuous. Building on this, we conduct a comprehensive empirical evaluation of existing shadow removal methods, subjecting them to various levels of attack on publicly available datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [213]
标题:  A survey of synthetic data augmentation methods in computer vision
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10075
作者:  Alhassan Mumuni,  Fuseini Mumuni,  Nana Kobina Gerrar
备注:  
Abstract:The standard approach to tackling computer vision problems is to train deep convolutional neural network (CNN) models using large-scale image datasets which are representative of the target task. However, in many scenarios, it is often challenging to obtain sufficient image data for the target task. Data augmentation is a way to mitigate this challenge. A common practice is to explicitly transform existing images in desired ways so as to create the required volume and variability of training data necessary to achieve good generalization performance. In situations where data for the target domain is not accessible, a viable workaround is to synthesize training data from scratch--i.e., synthetic data augmentation. This paper presents an extensive review of synthetic data augmentation techniques. It covers data synthesis approaches based on realistic 3D graphics modeling, neural style transfer (NST), differential neural rendering, and generative artificial intelligence (AI) techniques such as generative adversarial networks (GANs) and variational autoencoders (VAEs). For each of these classes of methods, we focus on the important data generation and augmentation techniques, general scope of application and specific use-cases, as well as existing limitations and possible workarounds. Additionally, we provide a summary of common synthetic datasets for training computer vision models, highlighting the main features, application domains and supported tasks. Finally, we discuss the effectiveness of synthetic data augmentation methods. Since this is the first paper to explore synthetic data augmentation methods in great detail, we are hoping to equip readers with the necessary background information and in-depth knowledge of existing methods and their attendant issues.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [214]
标题:  Revisiting Adversarial Training under Long-Tailed Distributions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10073
作者:  Xinli Yue,  Ningping Mou,  Qian Wang,  Lingchen Zhao
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:Deep neural networks are vulnerable to adversarial attacks, often leading to erroneous outputs. Adversarial training has been recognized as one of the most effective methods to counter such attacks. However, existing adversarial training techniques have predominantly been tested on balanced datasets, whereas real-world data often exhibit a long-tailed distribution, casting doubt on the efficacy of these methods in practical scenarios. In this paper, we delve into adversarial training under long-tailed distributions. Through an analysis of the previous work "RoBal", we discover that utilizing Balanced Softmax Loss alone can achieve performance comparable to the complete RoBal approach while significantly reducing training overheads. Additionally, we reveal that, similar to uniform distributions, adversarial training under long-tailed distributions also suffers from robust overfitting. To address this, we explore data augmentation as a solution and unexpectedly discover that, unlike results obtained with balanced data, data augmentation not only effectively alleviates robust overfitting but also significantly improves robustness. We further investigate the reasons behind the improvement of robustness through data augmentation and identify that it is attributable to the increased diversity of examples. Extensive experiments further corroborate that data augmentation alone can significantly improve robustness. Finally, building on these findings, we demonstrate that compared to RoBal, the combination of BSL and data augmentation leads to a +6.66% improvement in model robustness under AutoAttack on CIFAR-10-LT. Our code is available at this https URL .
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [215]
标题:  Codebook Transfer with Part-of-Speech for Vector-Quantized Image  Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10071
作者:  Baoquan Zhang,  Huaibin Wang,  Luo Chuyao,  Xutao Li,  Liang Guotao,  Yunming Ye,  Xiaochen Qi,  Yao He
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:Vector-Quantized Image Modeling (VQIM) is a fundamental research problem in image synthesis, which aims to represent an image with a discrete token sequence. Existing studies effectively address this problem by learning a discrete codebook from scratch and in a code-independent manner to quantize continuous representations into discrete tokens. However, learning a codebook from scratch and in a code-independent manner is highly challenging, which may be a key reason causing codebook collapse, i.e., some code vectors can rarely be optimized without regard to the relationship between codes and good codebook priors such that die off finally. In this paper, inspired by pretrained language models, we find that these language models have actually pretrained a superior codebook via a large number of text corpus, but such information is rarely exploited in VQIM. To this end, we propose a novel codebook transfer framework with part-of-speech, called VQCT, which aims to transfer a well-trained codebook from pretrained language models to VQIM for robust codebook learning. Specifically, we first introduce a pretrained codebook from language models and part-of-speech knowledge as priors. Then, we construct a vision-related codebook with these priors for achieving codebook transfer. Finally, a novel codebook transfer network is designed to exploit abundant semantic relationships between codes contained in pretrained codebooks for robust VQIM codebook learning. Experimental results on four datasets show that our VQCT method achieves superior VQIM performance over previous state-of-the-art methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [216]
标题:  Boundary Matters: A Bi-Level Active Finetuning Framework
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10069
作者:  Han Lu,  Yichen Xie,  Xiaokang Yang,  Junchi Yan
备注:  
Abstract:The pretraining-finetuning paradigm has gained widespread adoption in vision tasks and other fields, yet it faces the significant challenge of high sample annotation costs. To mitigate this, the concept of active finetuning has emerged, aiming to select the most appropriate samples for model finetuning within a limited budget. Traditional active learning methods often struggle in this setting due to their inherent bias in batch selection. Furthermore, the recent active finetuning approach has primarily concentrated on aligning the distribution of selected subsets with the overall data pool, focusing solely on diversity. In this paper, we propose a Bi-Level Active Finetuning framework to select the samples for annotation in one shot, which includes two stages: core sample selection for diversity, and boundary sample selection for uncertainty. The process begins with the identification of pseudo-class centers, followed by an innovative denoising method and an iterative strategy for boundary sample selection in the high-dimensional feature space, all without relying on ground-truth labels. Our comprehensive experiments provide both qualitative and quantitative evidence of our method's efficacy, outperforming all the existing baselines.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [217]
标题:  What Makes Good Collaborative Views? Contrastive Mutual Information  Maximization for Multi-Agent Perception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10068
作者:  Wanfang Su,  Lixing Chen,  Yang Bai,  Xi Lin,  Gaolei Li,  Zhe Qu,  Pan Zhou
备注:  
Abstract:Multi-agent perception (MAP) allows autonomous systems to understand complex environments by interpreting data from multiple sources. This paper investigates intermediate collaboration for MAP with a specific focus on exploring "good" properties of collaborative view (i.e., post-collaboration feature) and its underlying relationship to individual views (i.e., pre-collaboration features), which were treated as an opaque procedure by most existing works. We propose a novel framework named CMiMC (Contrastive Mutual Information Maximization for Collaborative Perception) for intermediate collaboration. The core philosophy of CMiMC is to preserve discriminative information of individual views in the collaborative view by maximizing mutual information between pre- and post-collaboration features while enhancing the efficacy of collaborative views by minimizing the loss function of downstream tasks. In particular, we define multi-view mutual information (MVMI) for intermediate collaboration that evaluates correlations between collaborative views and individual views on both global and local scales. We establish CMiMNet based on multi-view contrastive learning to realize estimation and maximization of MVMI, which assists the training of a collaboration encoder for voxel-level feature fusion. We evaluate CMiMC on V2X-Sim 1.0, and it improves the SOTA average precision by 3.08% and 4.44% at 0.5 and 0.7 IoU (Intersection-over-Union) thresholds, respectively. In addition, CMiMC can reduce communication volume to 1/32 while achieving performance comparable to SOTA. Code and Appendix are released at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [218]
标题:  Contrastive Pre-Training with Multi-View Fusion for No-Reference Point  Cloud Quality Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10066
作者:  Ziyu Shan,  Yujie Zhang,  Qi Yang,  Haichen Yang,  Yiling Xu,  Jenq-Neng Hwang,  Xiaozhong Xu,  Shan Liu
备注:  
Abstract:No-reference point cloud quality assessment (NR-PCQA) aims to automatically evaluate the perceptual quality of distorted point clouds without available reference, which have achieved tremendous improvements due to the utilization of deep neural networks. However, learning-based NR-PCQA methods suffer from the scarcity of labeled data and usually perform suboptimally in terms of generalization. To solve the problem, we propose a novel contrastive pre-training framework tailored for PCQA (CoPA), which enables the pre-trained model to learn quality-aware representations from unlabeled data. To obtain anchors in the representation space, we project point clouds with different distortions into images and randomly mix their local patches to form mixed images with multiple distortions. Utilizing the generated anchors, we constrain the pre-training process via a quality-aware contrastive loss following the philosophy that perceptual quality is closely related to both content and distortion. Furthermore, in the model fine-tuning stage, we propose a semantic-guided multi-view fusion module to effectively integrate the features of projected images from multiple perspectives. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art PCQA methods on popular benchmarks. Further investigations demonstrate that CoPA can also benefit existing learning-based PCQA models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [219]
标题:  Triple GNNs: Introducing Syntactic and Semantic Information for  Conversational Aspect-Based Quadruple Sentiment Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10065
作者:  Binbin Li,  Yuqing Li,  Siyu Jia,  Bingnan Ma,  Yu Ding,  Zisen Qi,  Xingbang Tan,  Menghan Guo,  Shenghui Liu
备注:  Accepted by CSCWD2024
Abstract:Conversational Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis (DiaASQ) aims to detect quadruples \{target, aspect, opinion, sentiment polarity\} from given dialogues. In DiaASQ, elements constituting these quadruples are not necessarily confined to individual sentences but may span across multiple utterances within a dialogue. This necessitates a dual focus on both the syntactic information of individual utterances and the semantic interaction among them. However, previous studies have primarily focused on coarse-grained relationships between utterances, thus overlooking the potential benefits of detailed intra-utterance syntactic information and the granularity of inter-utterance relationships. This paper introduces the Triple GNNs network to enhance DiaAsQ. It employs a Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) for modeling syntactic dependencies within utterances and a Dual Graph Attention Network (DualGATs) to construct interactions between utterances. Experiments on two standard datasets reveal that our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art baselines. The code is available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [220]
标题:  Unified Projection-Free Algorithms for Adversarial DR-Submodular  Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10063
作者:  Mohammad Pedramfar,  Yididiya Y. Nadew,  Christopher J. Quinn,  Vaneet Aggarwal
备注:  Accepted for publication at ICLR 2024
Abstract:This paper introduces unified projection-free Frank-Wolfe type algorithms for adversarial continuous DR-submodular optimization, spanning scenarios such as full information and (semi-)bandit feedback, monotone and non-monotone functions, different constraints, and types of stochastic queries. For every problem considered in the non-monotone setting, the proposed algorithms are either the first with proven sub-linear $\alpha$-regret bounds or have better $\alpha$-regret bounds than the state of the art, where $\alpha$ is a corresponding approximation bound in the offline setting. In the monotone setting, the proposed approach gives state-of-the-art sub-linear $\alpha$-regret bounds among projection-free algorithms in 7 of the 8 considered cases while matching the result of the remaining case. Additionally, this paper addresses semi-bandit and bandit feedback for adversarial DR-submodular optimization, advancing the understanding of this optimization area.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [221]
标题:  PAME: Self-Supervised Masked Autoencoder for No-Reference Point Cloud  Quality Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10061
作者:  Ziyu Shan,  Yujie Zhang,  Qi Yang,  Haichen Yang,  Yiling Xu,  Shan Liu
备注:  
Abstract:No-reference point cloud quality assessment (NR-PCQA) aims to automatically predict the perceptual quality of point clouds without reference, which has achieved remarkable performance due to the utilization of deep learning-based models. However, these data-driven models suffer from the scarcity of labeled data and perform unsatisfactorily in cross-dataset evaluations. To address this problem, we propose a self-supervised pre-training framework using masked autoencoders (PAME) to help the model learn useful representations without labels. Specifically, after projecting point clouds into images, our PAME employs dual-branch autoencoders, reconstructing masked patches from distorted images into the original patches within reference and distorted images. In this manner, the two branches can separately learn content-aware features and distortion-aware features from the projected images. Furthermore, in the model fine-tuning stage, the learned content-aware features serve as a guide to fuse the point cloud quality features extracted from different perspectives. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art NR-PCQA methods on popular benchmarks in terms of prediction accuracy and generalizability.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [222]
标题:  Repoformer: Selective Retrieval for Repository-Level Code Completion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10059
作者:  Di Wu,  Wasi Uddin Ahmad,  Dejiao Zhang,  Murali Krishna Ramanathan,  Xiaofei Ma
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advances in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) have initiated a new era in repository-level code completion. However, the invariable use of retrieval in existing methods exposes issues in both efficiency and robustness, with a large proportion of the retrieved contexts proving unhelpful or harmful to code language models (code LMs). To tackle the challenges, this paper proposes a selective RAG framework where retrieval is avoided when unnecessary. To power this framework, we design a self-supervised learning approach that enables a code LM to accurately self-evaluate whether retrieval can improve its output quality and robustly leverage the potentially noisy retrieved contexts. Using this LM as both the selective retrieval policy and the generation model, our framework consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art prompting with an invariable retrieval approach on diverse benchmarks including RepoEval, CrossCodeEval, and a new benchmark. Meanwhile, our selective retrieval strategy results in strong efficiency improvements by as much as 70% inference speedup without harming the performance. We demonstrate that our framework effectively accommodates different generation models, retrievers, and programming languages. These advancements position our framework as an important step towards more accurate and efficient repository-level code completion.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [223]
标题:  RID-TWIN: An end-to-end pipeline for automatic face de-identification in  videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10058
作者:  Anirban Mukherjee,  Monjoy Narayan Choudhury,  Dinesh Babu Jayagopi
备注:  This work has been submitted to IEEE ICIP 2024
Abstract:Face de-identification in videos is a challenging task in the domain of computer vision, primarily used in privacy-preserving applications. Despite the considerable progress achieved through generative vision models, there remain multiple challenges in the latest approaches. They lack a comprehensive discussion and evaluation of aspects such as realism, temporal coherence, and preservation of non-identifiable features. In our work, we propose RID-Twin: a novel pipeline that leverages the state-of-the-art generative models, and decouples identity from motion to perform automatic face de-identification in videos. We investigate the task from a holistic point of view and discuss how our approach addresses the pertinent existing challenges in this domain. We evaluate the performance of our methodology on the widely employed VoxCeleb2 dataset, and also a custom dataset designed to accommodate the limitations of certain behavioral variations absent in the VoxCeleb2 dataset. We discuss the implications and advantages of our work and suggest directions for future research.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [224]
标题:  Don't Half-listen: Capturing Key-part Information in Continual  Instruction Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10056
作者:  Yongquan He,  Xuancheng Huang,  Minghao Tang,  Lingxun Meng,  Xiang Li,  Wei Lin,  Wenyuan Zhang,  Yifu Gao
备注:  18 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Instruction tuning for large language models (LLMs) can drive them to produce results consistent with human goals in specific downstream tasks. However, the process of continual instruction tuning (CIT) for LLMs may bring about the catastrophic forgetting (CF) problem, where previously learned abilities are degraded. Recent methods try to alleviate the CF problem by modifying models or replaying data, which may only remember the surface-level pattern of instructions and get confused on held-out tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel continual instruction tuning method based on Key-part Information Gain (KPIG). Our method computes the information gain on masked parts to dynamically replay data and refine the training objective, which enables LLMs to capture task-aware information relevant to the correct response and alleviate overfitting to general descriptions in instructions. In addition, we propose two metrics, P-score and V-score, to measure the generalization and instruction-following abilities of LLMs. Experiments demonstrate our method achieves superior performance on both seen and held-out tasks.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [225]
标题:  Control and Automation for Industrial Production Storage Zone:  Generation of Optimal Route Using Image Processing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10054
作者:  Bejamin A. Huerfano,  Fernando Jimenez
备注:  17 figures, 17 tables, from a thesis (2017)
Abstract:Digital image processing (DIP) is of great importance in validating and guaranteeing parameters that ensure the quality of mass-produced products. Therefore, this article focused on developing an industrial automation method for a zone of a production line model using the DIP. The neo-cascade methodology employed allowed for defining each of the stages in an adequate way, ensuring the inclusion of the relevant methods for its development, which finally incurred in the modeling, design, implementation, and testing of an optimal route generation system for a warehouse area, using DIP with optimization guidelines, in conjunction with an embedded platform and the connection to programmable logic controllers (PLCs) for its execution. The system was based on the OpenCV library; tool focused on artificial vision, which was implemented on an object-oriented programming (OOP) platform based on Java language. It generated the optimal route for the automation of processes in a scale warehouse area, using the segmentation of objects and the optimization of flow in networks as pillars, ending with the connection to PLCs as a method of action, which in case of implementation would eliminate constraints such as process inefficiency, the use of manpower to perform these tasks, inadequate use of resources, among others
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [226]
标题:  Group-Mix SAM: Lightweight Solution for Industrial Assembly Line  Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10053
作者:  Wu Liang,  X.-G. Ma
备注:  8 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Since the advent of the Segment Anything Model(SAM) approximately one year ago, it has engendered significant academic interest and has spawned a large number of investigations and publications from various perspectives. However, the deployment of SAM in practical assembly line scenarios has yet to materialize due to its large image encoder, which weighs in at an imposing 632M. In this study, we have replaced the heavyweight image encoder with a lightweight one, thereby enabling the deployment of SAM in practical assembly line scenarios. Specifically, we have employed decoupled distillation to train the encoder of MobileSAM in a resource-limited setting. The entire knowledge distillation experiment can be completed in a single day on a single RTX 4090. The resulting lightweight SAM, referred to as Group-Mix SAM, had 37.63% (2.16M) fewer parameters and 42.5% (15614.7M) fewer floating-point operations compared to MobileSAM. However, on our constructed industrial dataset, MALSD, its mIoU was only marginally lower than that of MobileSAM, at 0.615. Finally, we conducted a comprehensive comparative experiment to demonstrate the superiority of Group-Mix SAM in the industrial domain. With its exceptional performance, our Group-Mix SAM is more suitable for practical assembly line applications.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [227]
标题:  T4P: Test-Time Training of Trajectory Prediction via Masked Autoencoder  and Actor-specific Token Memory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10052
作者:  Daehee Park,  Jaeseok Jeong,  Sung-Hoon Yoon,  Jaewoo Jeong,  Kuk-Jin Yoon
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Trajectory prediction is a challenging problem that requires considering interactions among multiple actors and the surrounding environment. While data-driven approaches have been used to address this complex problem, they suffer from unreliable predictions under distribution shifts during test time. Accordingly, several online learning methods have been proposed using regression loss from the ground truth of observed data leveraging the auto-labeling nature of trajectory prediction task. We mainly tackle the following two issues. First, previous works underfit and overfit as they only optimize the last layer of the motion decoder. To this end, we employ the masked autoencoder (MAE) for representation learning to encourage complex interaction modeling in shifted test distribution for updating deeper layers. Second, utilizing the sequential nature of driving data, we propose an actor-specific token memory that enables the test-time learning of actor-wise motion characteristics. Our proposed method has been validated across various challenging cross-dataset distribution shift scenarios including nuScenes, Lyft, Waymo, and Interaction. Our method surpasses the performance of existing state-of-the-art online learning methods in terms of both prediction accuracy and computational efficiency. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [228]
标题:  Accelerating Regular Path Queries over Graph Database with  Processing-in-Memory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10051
作者:  Ruoyan Ma,  Shengan Zheng,  Guifeng Wang,  Jin Pu,  Yifan Hua,  Wentao Wang,  Linpeng Huang
备注:  
Abstract:Regular path queries (RPQs) in graph databases are bottlenecked by the memory wall. Emerging processing-in-memory (PIM) technologies offer a promising solution to dispatch and execute path matching tasks in parallel within PIM modules. We present Moctopus, a PIM-based data management system for graph databases that supports efficient batch RPQs and graph updates. Moctopus employs a PIM-friendly dynamic graph partitioning algorithm, which tackles graph skewness and preserves graph locality with low overhead for RPQ processing. Moctopus enables efficient graph update by amortizing the host CPU's update overhead to PIM modules. Evaluation of Moctopus demonstrates superiority over the state-of-the-art traditional graph database.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [229]
标题:  Texture-GS: Disentangling the Geometry and Texture for 3D Gaussian  Splatting Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10050
作者:  Tian-Xing Xu,  Wenbo Hu,  Yu-Kun Lai,  Ying Shan,  Song-Hai Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:3D Gaussian splatting, emerging as a groundbreaking approach, has drawn increasing attention for its capabilities of high-fidelity reconstruction and real-time rendering. However, it couples the appearance and geometry of the scene within the Gaussian attributes, which hinders the flexibility of editing operations, such as texture swapping. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach, namely Texture-GS, to disentangle the appearance from the geometry by representing it as a 2D texture mapped onto the 3D surface, thereby facilitating appearance editing. Technically, the disentanglement is achieved by our proposed texture mapping module, which consists of a UV mapping MLP to learn the UV coordinates for the 3D Gaussian centers, a local Taylor expansion of the MLP to efficiently approximate the UV coordinates for the ray-Gaussian intersections, and a learnable texture to capture the fine-grained appearance. Extensive experiments on the DTU dataset demonstrate that our method not only facilitates high-fidelity appearance editing but also achieves real-time rendering on consumer-level devices, e.g. a single RTX 2080 Ti GPU.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [230]
标题:  PPM : A Pre-trained Plug-in Model for Click-through Rate Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10049
作者:  Yuanbo Gao,  Peng Lin,  Dongyue Wang,  Feng Mei,  Xiwei Zhao,  Sulong Xu,  Jinghe Hu
备注:  Accepted by ACM Web Conference 2024 (WWW'24)
Abstract:Click-through rate (CTR) prediction is a core task in recommender systems. Existing methods (IDRec for short) rely on unique identities to represent distinct users and items that have prevailed for decades. On one hand, IDRec often faces significant performance degradation on cold-start problem; on the other hand, IDRec cannot use longer training data due to constraints imposed by iteration efficiency. Most prior studies alleviate the above problems by introducing pre-trained knowledge(e.g. pre-trained user model or multi-modal embeddings). However, the explosive growth of online latency can be attributed to the huge parameters in the pre-trained model. Therefore, most of them cannot employ the unified model of end-to-end training with IDRec in industrial recommender systems, thus limiting the potential of the pre-trained model. To this end, we propose a $\textbf{P}$re-trained $\textbf{P}$lug-in CTR $\textbf{M}$odel, namely PPM. PPM employs multi-modal features as input and utilizes large-scale data for pre-training. Then, PPM is plugged in IDRec model to enhance unified model's performance and iteration efficiency. Upon incorporating IDRec model, certain intermediate results within the network are cached, with only a subset of the parameters participating in training and serving. Hence, our approach can successfully deploy an end-to-end model without causing huge latency increases. Comprehensive offline experiments and online A/B testing at JD E-commerce demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of PPM.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [231]
标题:  TextBlockV2: Towards Precise-Detection-Free Scene Text Spotting with  Pre-trained Language Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10047
作者:  Jiahao Lyu,  Jin Wei,  Gangyan Zeng,  Zeng Li,  Enze Xie,  Wei Wang,  Yu Zhou
备注:  12 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Existing scene text spotters are designed to locate and transcribe texts from images. However, it is challenging for a spotter to achieve precise detection and recognition of scene texts simultaneously. Inspired by the glimpse-focus spotting pipeline of human beings and impressive performances of Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) on visual tasks, we ask: 1) "Can machines spot texts without precise detection just like human beings?", and if yes, 2) "Is text block another alternative for scene text spotting other than word or character?" To this end, our proposed scene text spotter leverages advanced PLMs to enhance performance without fine-grained detection. Specifically, we first use a simple detector for block-level text detection to obtain rough positional information. Then, we finetune a PLM using a large-scale OCR dataset to achieve accurate recognition. Benefiting from the comprehensive language knowledge gained during the pre-training phase, the PLM-based recognition module effectively handles complex scenarios, including multi-line, reversed, occluded, and incomplete-detection texts. Taking advantage of the fine-tuned language model on scene recognition benchmarks and the paradigm of text block detection, extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance of our scene text spotter across multiple public benchmarks. Additionally, we attempt to spot texts directly from an entire scene image to demonstrate the potential of PLMs, even Large Language Models (LLMs).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [232]
标题:  Towards Adversarially Robust Dataset Distillation by Curvature  Regularization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10045
作者:  Eric Xue,  Yijiang Li,  Haoyang Liu,  Yifan Shen,  Haohan Wang
备注:  17 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Dataset distillation (DD) allows datasets to be distilled to fractions of their original size while preserving the rich distributional information so that models trained on the distilled datasets can achieve a comparable accuracy while saving significant computational loads. Recent research in this area has been focusing on improving the accuracy of models trained on distilled datasets. In this paper, we aim to explore a new perspective of DD. We study how to embed adversarial robustness in distilled datasets, so that models trained on these datasets maintain the high accuracy and meanwhile acquire better adversarial robustness. We propose a new method that achieves this goal by incorporating curvature regularization into the distillation process with much less computational overhead than standard adversarial training. Extensive empirical experiments suggest that our method not only outperforms standard adversarial training on both accuracy and robustness with less computation overhead but is also capable of generating robust distilled datasets that can withstand various adversarial attacks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [233]
标题:  SphereDiffusion: Spherical Geometry-Aware Distortion Resilient Diffusion  Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10044
作者:  Tao Wu,  Xuewei Li,  Zhongang Qi,  Di Hu,  Xintao Wang,  Ying Shan,  Xi Li
备注:  Accepted by AAAI2024
Abstract:Controllable spherical panoramic image generation holds substantial applicative potential across a variety of domains.However, it remains a challenging task due to the inherent spherical distortion and geometry characteristics, resulting in low-quality content this http URL this paper, we introduce a novel framework of SphereDiffusion to address these unique challenges, for better generating high-quality and precisely controllable spherical panoramic images.For the spherical distortion characteristic, we embed the semantics of the distorted object with text encoding, then explicitly construct the relationship with text-object correspondence to better use the pre-trained knowledge of the planar images.Meanwhile, we employ a deformable technique to mitigate the semantic deviation in latent space caused by spherical distortion.For the spherical geometry characteristic, in virtue of spherical rotation invariance, we improve the data diversity and optimization objectives in the training process, enabling the model to better learn the spherical geometry characteristic.Furthermore, we enhance the denoising process of the diffusion model, enabling it to effectively use the learned geometric characteristic to ensure the boundary continuity of the generated images.With these specific techniques, experiments on Structured3D dataset show that SphereDiffusion significantly improves the quality of controllable spherical image generation and relatively reduces around 35% FID on average.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [234]
标题:  GeoPro-VO: Dynamic Obstacle Avoidance with Geometric Projector Based on  Velocity Obstacle
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10043
作者:  Jihao Huang,  Xuemin Chi,  Jun Zeng,  Zhitao Liu,  Hongye Su
备注:  
Abstract:Optimization-based approaches are widely employed to generate optimal robot motions while considering various constraints, such as robot dynamics, collision avoidance, and physical limitations. It is crucial to efficiently solve the optimization problems in practice, yet achieving rapid computations remains a great challenge for optimization-based approaches with nonlinear constraints. In this paper, we propose a geometric projector for dynamic obstacle avoidance based on velocity obstacle (GeoPro-VO) by leveraging the projection feature of the velocity cone set represented by VO. Furthermore, with the proposed GeoPro-VO and the augmented Lagrangian spectral projected gradient descent (ALSPG) algorithm, we transform an initial mixed integer nonlinear programming problem (MINLP) in the form of constrained model predictive control (MPC) into a sub-optimization problem and solve it efficiently. Numerical simulations are conducted to validate the fast computing speed of our approach and its capability for reliable dynamic obstacle avoidance.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [235]
标题:  Towards Embedding Dynamic Personas in Interactive Robots: Masquerading  Animated Social Kinematics (MASK)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10041
作者:  Jeongeun Park,  Taemoon Jeong,  Hyeonseong Kim,  Taehyun Byun,  Seungyoon Shin,  Keunjun Choi,  Jaewoon Kwon,  Taeyoon Lee,  Matthew Pan,  Sungjoon Choi
备注:  4 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:This paper presents the design and development of an innovative interactive robotic system to enhance audience engagement using character-like personas. Built upon the foundations of persona-driven dialog agents, this work extends the agent application to the physical realm, employing robots to provide a more immersive and interactive experience. The proposed system, named the Masquerading Animated Social Kinematics (MASK), leverages an anthropomorphic robot which interacts with guests using non-verbal interactions, including facial expressions and gestures. A behavior generation system based upon a finite-state machine structure effectively conditions robotic behavior to convey distinct personas. The MASK framework integrates a perception engine, a behavior selection engine, and a comprehensive action library to enable real-time, dynamic interactions with minimal human intervention in behavior design. Throughout the user subject studies, we examined whether the users could recognize the intended character in film-character-based persona conditions. We conclude by discussing the role of personas in interactive agents and the factors to consider for creating an engaging user experience.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [236]
标题:  Rethinking Low-quality Optical Flow in Unsupervised Surgical Instrument  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10039
作者:  Peiran Wu,  Yang Liu,  Jiayu Huo,  Gongyu Zhang,  Christos Bergeles,  Rachel Sparks,  Prokar Dasgupta,  Alejandro Granados,  Sebastien Ourselin
备注:  
Abstract:Video-based surgical instrument segmentation plays an important role in robot-assisted surgeries. Unlike supervised settings, unsupervised segmentation relies heavily on motion cues, which are challenging to discern due to the typically lower quality of optical flow in surgical footage compared to natural scenes. This presents a considerable burden for the advancement of unsupervised segmentation techniques. In our work, we address the challenge of enhancing model performance despite the inherent limitations of low-quality optical flow. Our methodology employs a three-pronged approach: extracting boundaries directly from the optical flow, selectively discarding frames with inferior flow quality, and employing a fine-tuning process with variable frame rates. We thoroughly evaluate our strategy on the EndoVis2017 VOS dataset and Endovis2017 Challenge dataset, where our model demonstrates promising results, achieving a mean Intersection-over-Union (mIoU) of 0.75 and 0.72, respectively. Our findings suggest that our approach can greatly decrease the need for manual annotations in clinical environments and may facilitate the annotation process for new datasets. The code is available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [237]
标题:  Knowledge Condensation and Reasoning for Knowledge-based VQA
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10037
作者:  Dongze Hao,  Jian Jia,  Longteng Guo,  Qunbo Wang,  Te Yang,  Yan Li,  Yanhua Cheng,  Bo Wang,  Quan Chen,  Han Li,  Jing Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Knowledge-based visual question answering (KB-VQA) is a challenging task, which requires the model to leverage external knowledge for comprehending and answering questions grounded in visual content. Recent studies retrieve the knowledge passages from external knowledge bases and then use them to answer questions. However, these retrieved knowledge passages often contain irrelevant or noisy information, which limits the performance of the model. To address the challenge, we propose two synergistic models: Knowledge Condensation model and Knowledge Reasoning model. We condense the retrieved knowledge passages from two perspectives. First, we leverage the multimodal perception and reasoning ability of the visual-language models to distill concise knowledge concepts from retrieved lengthy passages, ensuring relevance to both the visual content and the question. Second, we leverage the text comprehension ability of the large language models to summarize and condense the passages into the knowledge essence which helps answer the question. These two types of condensed knowledge are then seamlessly integrated into our Knowledge Reasoning model, which judiciously navigates through the amalgamated information to arrive at the conclusive answer. Extensive experiments validate the superiority of the proposed method. Compared to previous methods, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on knowledge-based VQA datasets (65.1% on OK-VQA and 60.1% on A-OKVQA) without resorting to the knowledge produced by GPT-3 (175B).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [238]
标题:  SparseFusion: Efficient Sparse Multi-Modal Fusion Framework for  Long-Range 3D Perception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10036
作者:  Yiheng Li,  Hongyang Li,  Zehao Huang,  Hong Chang,  Naiyan Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Multi-modal 3D object detection has exhibited significant progress in recent years. However, most existing methods can hardly scale to long-range scenarios due to their reliance on dense 3D features, which substantially escalate computational demands and memory usage. In this paper, we introduce SparseFusion, a novel multi-modal fusion framework fully built upon sparse 3D features to facilitate efficient long-range perception. The core of our method is the Sparse View Transformer module, which selectively lifts regions of interest in 2D image space into the unified 3D space. The proposed module introduces sparsity from both semantic and geometric aspects which only fill grids that foreground objects potentially reside in. Comprehensive experiments have verified the efficiency and effectiveness of our framework in long-range 3D perception. Remarkably, on the long-range Argoverse2 dataset, SparseFusion reduces memory footprint and accelerates the inference by about two times compared to dense detectors. It also achieves state-of-the-art performance with mAP of 41.2% and CDS of 32.1%. The versatility of SparseFusion is also validated in the temporal object detection task and 3D lane detection task. Codes will be released upon acceptance.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [239]
标题:  Ipelets for the Convex Polygonal Geometry
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10033
作者:  Nithin Parepally,  Ainesh Chatterjee,  Auguste Gezalyan,  Hongyang Du,  Sukrit Mangla,  Kenny Wu,  Sarah Hwang,  David Mount
备注:  
Abstract:There are many structures, both classical and modern, involving convex polygonal geometries whose deeper understanding would be facilitated through interactive visualizations. The Ipe extensible drawing editor, developed by Otfried Cheong, is a widely used software system for generating geometric figures. One of its features is the capability to extend its functionality through programs called Ipelets. In this media submission, we showcase a collection of new Ipelets that construct a variety of geometric objects based on polygonal geometries. These include Macbeath regions, metric balls in the forward and reverse Funk distance, metric balls in the Hilbert metric, polar bodies, the minimum enclosing ball of a point set, and minimum spanning trees in both the Funk and Hilbert metrics. We also include a number of utilities on convex polygons, including union, intersection, subtraction, and Minkowski sum (previously implemented as a CGAL Ipelet). All of our Ipelets are programmed in Lua and are freely available.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [240]
标题:  Multi-criteria Token Fusion with One-step-ahead Attention for Efficient  Vision Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10030
作者:  Sanghyeok Lee,  Joonmyung Choi,  Hyunwoo J. Kim
备注:  Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2024
Abstract:Vision Transformer (ViT) has emerged as a prominent backbone for computer vision. For more efficient ViTs, recent works lessen the quadratic cost of the self-attention layer by pruning or fusing the redundant tokens. However, these works faced the speed-accuracy trade-off caused by the loss of information. Here, we argue that token fusion needs to consider diverse relations between tokens to minimize information loss. In this paper, we propose a Multi-criteria Token Fusion (MCTF), that gradually fuses the tokens based on multi-criteria (e.g., similarity, informativeness, and size of fused tokens). Further, we utilize the one-step-ahead attention, which is the improved approach to capture the informativeness of the tokens. By training the model equipped with MCTF using a token reduction consistency, we achieve the best speed-accuracy trade-off in the image classification (ImageNet1K). Experimental results prove that MCTF consistently surpasses the previous reduction methods with and without training. Specifically, DeiT-T and DeiT-S with MCTF reduce FLOPs by about 44% while improving the performance (+0.5%, and +0.3%) over the base model, respectively. We also demonstrate the applicability of MCTF in various Vision Transformers (e.g., T2T-ViT, LV-ViT), achieving at least 31% speedup without performance degradation. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [241]
标题:  MR-MT3: Memory Retaining Multi-Track Music Transcription to Mitigate  Instrument Leakage
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10024
作者:  Hao Hao Tan,  Kin Wai Cheuk,  Taemin Cho,  Wei-Hsiang Liao,  Yuki Mitsufuji
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents enhancements to the MT3 model, a state-of-the-art (SOTA) token-based multi-instrument automatic music transcription (AMT) model. Despite SOTA performance, MT3 has the issue of instrument leakage, where transcriptions are fragmented across different instruments. To mitigate this, we propose MR-MT3, with enhancements including a memory retention mechanism, prior token sampling, and token shuffling are proposed. These methods are evaluated on the Slakh2100 dataset, demonstrating improved onset F1 scores and reduced instrument leakage. In addition to the conventional multi-instrument transcription F1 score, new metrics such as the instrument leakage ratio and the instrument detection F1 score are introduced for a more comprehensive assessment of transcription quality. The study also explores the issue of domain overfitting by evaluating MT3 on single-instrument monophonic datasets such as ComMU and NSynth. The findings, along with the source code, are shared to facilitate future work aimed at refining token-based multi-instrument AMT models.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Multimedia (cs.MM); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [242]
标题:  Lifelong Person Re-Identification with Backward-Compatibility
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10022
作者:  Minyoung Oh,  Jae-Young Sim
备注:  17 pages, 5 figures, 7 tables
Abstract:Lifelong person re-identification (LReID) assumes a practical scenario where the model is sequentially trained on continuously incoming datasets while alleviating the catastrophic forgetting in the old datasets. However, not only the training datasets but also the gallery images are incrementally accumulated, that requires a huge amount of computational complexity and storage space to extract the features at the inference phase. In this paper, we address the above mentioned problem by incorporating the backward-compatibility to LReID for the first time. We train the model using the continuously incoming datasets while maintaining the model's compatibility toward the previously trained old models without re-computing the features of the old gallery images. To this end, we devise the cross-model compatibility loss based on the contrastive learning with respect to the replay features across all the old datasets. Moreover, we also develop the knowledge consolidation method based on the part classification to learn the shared representation across different datasets for the backward-compatibility. We suggest a more practical methodology for performance evaluation as well where all the gallery and query images are considered together. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves a significantly higher performance of the backward-compatibility compared with the existing methods. It is a promising tool for more practical scenarios of LReID.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [243]
标题:  Time-Frequency Jointed Imperceptible Adversarial Attack to Brainprint  Recognition with Deep Learning Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10021
作者:  Hangjie Yi,  Yuhang Ming,  Dongjun Liu,  Wanzeng Kong
备注:  This work is accepted by ICME 2024
Abstract:EEG-based brainprint recognition with deep learning models has garnered much attention in biometric identification. Yet, studies have indicated vulnerability to adversarial attacks in deep learning models with EEG inputs. In this paper, we introduce a novel adversarial attack method that jointly attacks time-domain and frequency-domain EEG signals by employing wavelet transform. Different from most existing methods which only target time-domain EEG signals, our method not only takes advantage of the time-domain attack's potent adversarial strength but also benefits from the imperceptibility inherent in frequency-domain attack, achieving a better balance between attack performance and imperceptibility. Extensive experiments are conducted in both white- and grey-box scenarios and the results demonstrate that our attack method achieves state-of-the-art attack performance on three datasets and three deep-learning models. In the meanwhile, the perturbations in the signals attacked by our method are barely perceptible to the human visual system.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [244]
标题:  Lost in Overlap: Exploring Watermark Collision in LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10020
作者:  Yiyang Luo,  Ke Lin,  Chao Gu
备注:  Short Paper, 4 pages
Abstract:The proliferation of large language models (LLMs) in generating content raises concerns about text copyright. Watermarking methods, particularly logit-based approaches, embed imperceptible identifiers into text to address these challenges. However, the widespread use of watermarking across diverse LLMs has led to an inevitable issue known as watermark collision during common tasks like question answering and paraphrasing. This study focuses on dual watermark collisions, where two watermarks are present simultaneously in the same text. The research demonstrates that watermark collision poses a threat to detection performance for detectors of both upstream and downstream watermark algorithms.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [245]
标题:  Linear optimal transport subspaces for point set classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10015
作者:  Mohammad Shifat E Rabbi,  Naqib Sad Pathan,  Shiying Li,  Yan Zhuang,  Abu Hasnat Mohammad Rubaiyat,  Gustavo K Rohde
备注:  
Abstract:Learning from point sets is an essential component in many computer vision and machine learning applications. Native, unordered, and permutation invariant set structure space is challenging to model, particularly for point set classification under spatial deformations. Here we propose a framework for classifying point sets experiencing certain types of spatial deformations, with a particular emphasis on datasets featuring affine deformations. Our approach employs the Linear Optimal Transport (LOT) transform to obtain a linear embedding of set-structured data. Utilizing the mathematical properties of the LOT transform, we demonstrate its capacity to accommodate variations in point sets by constructing a convex data space, effectively simplifying point set classification problems. Our method, which employs a nearest-subspace algorithm in the LOT space, demonstrates label efficiency, non-iterative behavior, and requires no hyper-parameter tuning. It achieves competitive accuracies compared to state-of-the-art methods across various point set classification tasks. Furthermore, our approach exhibits robustness in out-of-distribution scenarios where training and test distributions vary in terms of deformation magnitudes.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [246]
标题:  NNCTC: Physical Layer Cross-Technology Communication via Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10014
作者:  Haoyu Wang,  Jiazhao Wang,  Demin Gao,  Wenchao Jiang
备注:  12 pages
Abstract:Cross-technology communication(CTC) enables seamless interactions between diverse wireless technologies. Most existing work is based on reversing the transmission path to identify the appropriate payload to generate the waveform that the target devices can recognize. However, this method suffers from many limitations, including dependency on specific technologies and the necessity for intricate algorithms to mitigate distortion. In this work, we present NNCTC, a Neural-Network-based Cross-Technology Communication framework inspired by the adaptability of trainable neural models in wireless communications. By converting signal processing components within the CTC pipeline into neural models, the NNCTC is designed for end-to-end training without requiring labeled data. This enables the NNCTC system to autonomously derive the optimal CTC payload, which significantly eases the development complexity and showcases the scalability potential for various CTC links. Particularly, we construct a CTC system from Wi-Fi to ZigBee. The NNCTC system outperforms the well-recognized WEBee and WIDE design in error performance, achieving an average packet reception rate(PRR) of 92.3% and an average symbol error rate(SER) as low as 1.3%.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [247]
标题:  LyZNet: A Lightweight Python Tool for Learning and Verifying Neural  Lyapunov Functions and Regions of Attraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10013
作者:  Jun Liu,  Yiming Meng,  Maxwell Fitzsimmons,  Ruikun Zhou
备注:  To appear in the 27th ACM International Conference on Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control (HSCC 2024). arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2312.09131
Abstract:In this paper, we describe a lightweight Python framework that provides integrated learning and verification of neural Lyapunov functions for stability analysis. The proposed tool, named LyZNet, learns neural Lyapunov functions using physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) to solve Zubov's equation and verifies them using satisfiability modulo theories (SMT) solvers. What distinguishes this tool from others in the literature is its ability to provide verified regions of attraction close to the domain of attraction. This is achieved by encoding Zubov's partial differential equation (PDE) into the PINN approach. By embracing the non-convex nature of the underlying optimization problems, we demonstrate that in cases where convex optimization, such as semidefinite programming, fails to capture the domain of attraction, our neural network framework proves more successful. The tool also offers automatic decomposition of coupled nonlinear systems into a network of low-dimensional subsystems for compositional verification. We illustrate the tool's usage and effectiveness with several numerical examples, including both non-trivial low-dimensional nonlinear systems and high-dimensional systems. The repository of the tool can be found at this https URL.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [248]
标题:  Real-World Computational Aberration Correction via Quantized  Domain-Mixing Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10012
作者:  Qi Jiang,  Zhonghua Yi,  Shaohua Gao,  Yao Gao,  Xiaolong Qian,  Hao Shi,  Lei Sun,  Zhijie Xu,  Kailun Yang,  Kaiwei Wang
备注:  Codes and datasets will be made publicly available at this https URL
Abstract:Relying on paired synthetic data, existing learning-based Computational Aberration Correction (CAC) methods are confronted with the intricate and multifaceted synthetic-to-real domain gap, which leads to suboptimal performance in real-world applications. In this paper, in contrast to improving the simulation pipeline, we deliver a novel insight into real-world CAC from the perspective of Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA). By incorporating readily accessible unpaired real-world data into training, we formalize the Domain Adaptive CAC (DACAC) task, and then introduce a comprehensive Real-world aberrated images (Realab) dataset to benchmark it. The setup task presents a formidable challenge due to the intricacy of understanding the target aberration domain. To this intent, we propose a novel Quntized Domain-Mixing Representation (QDMR) framework as a potent solution to the issue. QDMR adapts the CAC model to the target domain from three key aspects: (1) reconstructing aberrated images of both domains by a VQGAN to learn a Domain-Mixing Codebook (DMC) which characterizes the degradation-aware priors; (2) modulating the deep features in CAC model with DMC to transfer the target domain knowledge; and (3) leveraging the trained VQGAN to generate pseudo target aberrated images from the source ones for convincing target domain supervision. Extensive experiments on both synthetic and real-world benchmarks reveal that the models with QDMR consistently surpass the competitive methods in mitigating the synthetic-to-real gap, which produces visually pleasant real-world CAC results with fewer artifacts. Codes and datasets will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Optics (physics.optics)

**编号**: [249]
标题:  Language to Map: Topological map generation from natural language path  instructions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10008
作者:  Hideki Deguchi,  Kazuki Shibata,  Shun Taguchi
备注:  7 pages, 7 figures. Accepted to IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) 2024
Abstract:In this paper, a method for generating a map from path information described using natural language (textual path) is proposed. In recent years, robotics research mainly focus on vision-and-language navigation (VLN), a navigation task based on images and textual paths. Although VLN is expected to facilitate user instructions to robots, its current implementation requires users to explain the details of the path for each navigation session, which results in high explanation costs for users. To solve this problem, we proposed a method that creates a map as a topological map from a textual path and automatically creates a new path using this map. We believe that large language models (LLMs) can be used to understand textual path. Therefore, we propose and evaluate two methods, one for storing implicit maps in LLMs, and the other for generating explicit maps using LLMs. The implicit map is in the LLM's memory. It is created using prompts. In the explicit map, a topological map composed of nodes and edges is constructed and the actions at each node are stored. This makes it possible to estimate the path and actions at waypoints on an undescribed path, if enough information is available. Experimental results on path instructions generated in a real environment demonstrate that generating explicit maps achieves significantly higher accuracy than storing implicit maps in the LLMs.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [250]
标题:  Compositionally Verifiable Vector Neural Lyapunov Functions for  Stability Analysis of Interconnected Nonlinear Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10007
作者:  Jun Liu,  Yiming Meng,  Maxwell Fitzsimmons,  Ruikun Zhou
备注:  Extended version of a paper to be presented at the 2024 American Control Conference (ACC)
Abstract:While there has been increasing interest in using neural networks to compute Lyapunov functions, verifying that these functions satisfy the Lyapunov conditions and certifying stability regions remain challenging due to the curse of dimensionality. In this paper, we demonstrate that by leveraging the compositional structure of interconnected nonlinear systems, it is possible to verify neural Lyapunov functions for high-dimensional systems beyond the capabilities of current satisfiability modulo theories (SMT) solvers using a monolithic approach. Our numerical examples employ neural Lyapunov functions trained by solving Zubov's partial differential equation (PDE), which characterizes the domain of attraction for individual subsystems. These examples show a performance advantage over sums-of-squares (SOS) polynomial Lyapunov functions derived from semidefinite programming.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [251]
标题:  Graph Enhanced Reinforcement Learning for Effective Group Formation in  Collaborative Problem Solving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10006
作者:  Zheng Fang,  Fucai Ke,  Jae Young Han,  Zhijie Feng,  Toby Cai
备注:  
Abstract:This study addresses the challenge of forming effective groups in collaborative problem-solving environments. Recognizing the complexity of human interactions and the necessity for efficient collaboration, we propose a novel approach leveraging graph theory and reinforcement learning. Our methodology involves constructing a graph from a dataset where nodes represent participants, and edges signify the interactions between them. We conceptualize each participant as an agent within a reinforcement learning framework, aiming to learn an optimal graph structure that reflects effective group dynamics. Clustering techniques are employed to delineate clear group structures based on the learned graph. Our approach provides theoretical solutions based on evaluation metrics and graph measurements, offering insights into potential improvements in group effectiveness and reductions in conflict incidences. This research contributes to the fields of collaborative work and educational psychology by presenting a data-driven, analytical approach to group formation. It has practical implications for organizational team building, classroom settings, and any collaborative scenario where group dynamics are crucial. The study opens new avenues for exploring the application of graph theory and reinforcement learning in social and behavioral sciences, highlighting the potential for empirical validation in future work.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [252]
标题:  Securing Federated Learning with Control-Flow Attestation: A Novel  Framework for Enhanced Integrity and Resilience against Adversarial Attacks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10005
作者:  Zahir Alsulaimawi
备注:  
Abstract:The advent of Federated Learning (FL) as a distributed machine learning paradigm has introduced new cybersecurity challenges, notably adversarial attacks that threaten model integrity and participant privacy. This study proposes an innovative security framework inspired by Control-Flow Attestation (CFA) mechanisms, traditionally used in cybersecurity, to ensure software execution integrity. By integrating digital signatures and cryptographic hashing within the FL framework, we authenticate and verify the integrity of model updates across the network, effectively mitigating risks associated with model poisoning and adversarial interference. Our approach, novel in its application of CFA principles to FL, ensures contributions from participating nodes are authentic and untampered, thereby enhancing system resilience without compromising computational efficiency or model performance. Empirical evaluations on benchmark datasets, MNIST and CIFAR-10, demonstrate our framework's effectiveness, achieving a 100\% success rate in integrity verification and authentication and notable resilience against adversarial attacks. These results validate the proposed security enhancements and open avenues for more secure, reliable, and privacy-conscious distributed machine learning solutions. Our work bridges a critical gap between cybersecurity and distributed machine learning, offering a foundation for future advancements in secure FL.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [253]
标题:  ST-LDM: A Universal Framework for Text-Grounded Object Generation in  Real Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10004
作者:  Xiangtian Xue,  Jiasong Wu,  Youyong Kong,  Lotfi Senhadji,  Huazhong Shu
备注:  
Abstract:We present a novel image editing scenario termed Text-grounded Object Generation (TOG), defined as generating a new object in the real image spatially conditioned by textual descriptions. Existing diffusion models exhibit limitations of spatial perception in complex real-world scenes, relying on additional modalities to enforce constraints, and TOG imposes heightened challenges on scene comprehension under the weak supervision of linguistic information. We propose a universal framework ST-LDM based on Swin-Transformer, which can be integrated into any latent diffusion model with training-free backward guidance. ST-LDM encompasses a global-perceptual autoencoder with adaptable compression scales and hierarchical visual features, parallel with deformable multimodal transformer to generate region-wise guidance for the subsequent denoising process. We transcend the limitation of traditional attention mechanisms that only focus on existing visual features by introducing deformable feature alignment to hierarchically refine spatial positioning fused with multi-scale visual and linguistic information. Extensive Experiments demonstrate that our model enhances the localization of attention mechanisms while preserving the generative capabilities inherent to diffusion models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [254]
标题:  Joint Group Scheduling and Multicast Beamforming for Downlink  Large-Scale Multi-Group Multicast
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10002
作者:  Chong Zhang,  Min Dong,  Ben Liang,  Ali Afana,  Yahia Ahmed
备注:  13 pages, 8 figures, 6 tables
Abstract:Next-generation wireless networks need to handle massive user access effectively. This paper addresses the problem of joint group scheduling and multicast beamforming for downlink multicast with many active groups. Aiming to maximize the minimum user throughput, we propose a three-phase approach to tackle this difficult joint optimization problem efficiently. In Phase 1, we utilize the optimal multicast beamforming structure obtained recently to find the group-channel directions for all groups. We propose two low-complexity scheduling algorithms in Phase 2, which determine the subset of groups in each time slot sequentially and the total number of time slots required for all groups. The first algorithm measures the level of spatial separation among groups and selects the dissimilar groups that maximize the minimum user rate into the same time slot. In contrast, the second algorithm first identifies the spatially correlated groups via a learning-based clustering method based on the group-channel directions, and then separates spatially similar groups into different time slots. Finally, the multicast beamformers for the scheduled groups are obtained in each time slot by a computationally efficient method. Simulation results show that our proposed approaches can effectively capture the level of spatial separation among groups for scheduling to improve the minimum user throughput over the conventional approach that serves all groups in a single time slot or one group per time slot, and can be executed with low computational complexity.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [255]
标题:  Visual Foundation Models Boost Cross-Modal Unsupervised Domain  Adaptation for 3D Semantic Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10001
作者:  Jingyi Xu,  Weidong Yang,  Lingdong Kong,  Youquan Liu,  Rui Zhang,  Qingyuan Zhou,  Ben Fei
备注:  8 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) is vital for alleviating the workload of labeling 3D point cloud data and mitigating the absence of labels when facing a newly defined domain. Various methods of utilizing images to enhance the performance of cross-domain 3D segmentation have recently emerged. However, the pseudo labels, which are generated from models trained on the source domain and provide additional supervised signals for the unseen domain, are inadequate when utilized for 3D segmentation due to their inherent noisiness and consequently restrict the accuracy of neural networks. With the advent of 2D visual foundation models (VFMs) and their abundant knowledge prior, we propose a novel pipeline VFMSeg to further enhance the cross-modal unsupervised domain adaptation framework by leveraging these models. In this work, we study how to harness the knowledge priors learned by VFMs to produce more accurate labels for unlabeled target domains and improve overall performance. We first utilize a multi-modal VFM, which is pre-trained on large scale image-text pairs, to provide supervised labels (VFM-PL) for images and point clouds from the target domain. Then, another VFM trained on fine-grained 2D masks is adopted to guide the generation of semantically augmented images and point clouds to enhance the performance of neural networks, which mix the data from source and target domains like view frustums (FrustumMixing). Finally, we merge class-wise prediction across modalities to produce more accurate annotations for unlabeled target domains. Our method is evaluated on various autonomous driving datasets and the results demonstrate a significant improvement for 3D segmentation task.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [256]
标题:  Federated Learning with Anomaly Detection via Gradient and  Reconstruction Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10000
作者:  Zahir Alsulaimawi
备注:  
Abstract:In the evolving landscape of Federated Learning (FL), the challenge of ensuring data integrity against poisoning attacks is paramount, particularly for applications demanding stringent privacy preservation. Traditional anomaly detection strategies often struggle to adapt to the distributed nature of FL, leaving a gap our research aims to bridge. We introduce a novel framework that synergizes gradient-based analysis with autoencoder-driven data reconstruction to detect and mitigate poisoned data with unprecedented precision. Our approach uniquely combines detecting anomalous gradient patterns with identifying reconstruction errors, significantly enhancing FL model security. Validated through extensive experiments on MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets, our method outperforms existing solutions by 15\% in anomaly detection accuracy while maintaining a minimal false positive rate. This robust performance, consistent across varied data types and network sizes, underscores our framework's potential in securing FL deployments in critical domains such as healthcare and finance. By setting new benchmarks for anomaly detection within FL, our work paves the way for future advancements in distributed learning security.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [257]
标题:  FBPT: A Fully Binary Point Transformer
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09998
作者:  Zhixing Hou,  Yuzhang Shang,  Yan Yan
备注:  Accepted to ICRA 2024. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2303.01166
Abstract:This paper presents a novel Fully Binary Point Cloud Transformer (FBPT) model which has the potential to be widely applied and expanded in the fields of robotics and mobile devices. By compressing the weights and activations of a 32-bit full-precision network to 1-bit binary values, the proposed binary point cloud Transformer network significantly reduces the storage footprint and computational resource requirements of neural network models for point cloud processing tasks, compared to full-precision point cloud networks. However, achieving a fully binary point cloud Transformer network, where all parts except the modules specific to the task are binary, poses challenges and bottlenecks in quantizing the activations of Q, K, V and self-attention in the attention module, as they do not adhere to simple probability distributions and can vary with input data. Furthermore, in our network, the binary attention module undergoes a degradation of the self-attention module due to the uniform distribution that occurs after the softmax operation. The primary focus of this paper is on addressing the performance degradation issue caused by the use of binary point cloud Transformer modules. We propose a novel binarization mechanism called dynamic-static hybridization. Specifically, our approach combines static binarization of the overall network model with fine granularity dynamic binarization of data-sensitive components. Furthermore, we make use of a novel hierarchical training scheme to obtain the optimal model and binarization parameters. These above improvements allow the proposed binarization method to outperform binarization methods applied to convolution neural networks when used in point cloud Transformer structures. To demonstrate the superiority of our algorithm, we conducted experiments on two different tasks: point cloud classification and place recognition.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [258]
标题:  Identifying Health Risks from Family History: A Survey of Natural  Language Processing Techniques
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09997
作者:  Xiang Dai,  Sarvnaz Karimi,  Nathan O'Callaghan
备注:  Under Review
Abstract:Electronic health records include information on patients' status and medical history, which could cover the history of diseases and disorders that could be hereditary. One important use of family history information is in precision health, where the goal is to keep the population healthy with preventative measures. Natural Language Processing (NLP) and machine learning techniques can assist with identifying information that could assist health professionals in identifying health risks before a condition is developed in their later years, saving lives and reducing healthcare costs. We survey the literature on the techniques from the NLP field that have been developed to utilise digital health records to identify risks of familial diseases. We highlight that rule-based methods are heavily investigated and are still actively used for family history extraction. Still, more recent efforts have been put into building neural models based on large-scale pre-trained language models. In addition to the areas where NLP has successfully been utilised, we also identify the areas where more research is needed to unlock the value of patients' records regarding data collection, task formulation and downstream applications.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [259]
标题:  MEDPNet: Achieving High-Precision Adaptive Registration for Complex Die  Castings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09996
作者:  Yu Du,  Yu Song,  Ce Guo,  Xiaojing Tian,  Dong Liu,  Ming Cong
备注:  
Abstract:Due to their complex spatial structure and diverse geometric features, achieving high-precision and robust point cloud registration for complex Die Castings has been a significant challenge in the die-casting industry. Existing point cloud registration methods primarily optimize network models using well-established high-quality datasets, often neglecting practical application in real scenarios. To address this gap, this paper proposes a high-precision adaptive registration method called Multiscale Efficient Deep Closest Point (MEDPNet) and introduces a die-casting point cloud dataset, DieCastCloud, specifically designed to tackle the challenges of point cloud registration in the die-casting industry. The MEDPNet method performs coarse die-casting point cloud data registration using the Efficient-DCP method, followed by precision registration using the Multiscale feature fusion dual-channel registration (MDR) method. We enhance the modeling capability and computational efficiency of the model by replacing the attention mechanism of the Transformer in DCP with Efficient Attention and implementing a collaborative scale mechanism through the combination of serial and parallel blocks. Additionally, we propose the MDR method, which utilizes multilayer perceptrons (MLP), Normal Distributions Transform (NDT), and Iterative Closest Point (ICP) to achieve learnable adaptive fusion, enabling high-precision, scalable, and noise-resistant global point cloud registration. Our proposed method demonstrates excellent performance compared to state-of-the-art geometric and learning-based registration methods when applied to complex die-casting point cloud data.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [260]
标题:  Even quantum advice is unlikely to solve PP
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09994
作者:  Justin Yirka
备注:  8 pages, 0 figures
Abstract:We give a corrected proof that if PP $\subseteq$ BQP/qpoly, then the Counting Hierarchy collapses, as originally claimed by Aaronson CCC'06 arXiv:cs/0504048. This recovers the related unconditional claim that PP does not have circuits of any fixed size $n^k$ even with quantum advice. We do so by proving that YQP*, an oblivious version of (QMA $\cap$ coQMA), is contained in APP, and so is PP-low.
Subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)

**编号**: [261]
标题:  TRG-Net: An Interpretable and Controllable Rain Generator
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09993
作者:  Zhiqiang Pang,  Hong Wang,  Qi Xie,  Deyu Meng,  Zongben Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Exploring and modeling rain generation mechanism is critical for augmenting paired data to ease training of rainy image processing models. Against this task, this study proposes a novel deep learning based rain generator, which fully takes the physical generation mechanism underlying rains into consideration and well encodes the learning of the fundamental rain factors (i.e., shape, orientation, length, width and sparsity) explicitly into the deep network. Its significance lies in that the generator not only elaborately design essential elements of the rain to simulate expected rains, like conventional artificial strategies, but also finely adapt to complicated and diverse practical rainy images, like deep learning methods. By rationally adopting filter parameterization technique, we first time achieve a deep network that is finely controllable with respect to rain factors and able to learn the distribution of these factors purely from data. Our unpaired generation experiments demonstrate that the rain generated by the proposed rain generator is not only of higher quality, but also more effective for deraining and downstream tasks compared to current state-of-the-art rain generation methods. Besides, the paired data augmentation experiments, including both in-distribution and out-of-distribution (OOD), further validate the diversity of samples generated by our model for in-distribution deraining and OOD generalization tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [262]
标题:  DDPS: Dynamic Differential Pricing-based Edge Offloading System with  Energy Harvesting Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09991
作者:  Hai Xue,  Yun Xia,  Neal N. Xiong,  Di Zhang,  Songwen Pei
备注:  
Abstract:Mobile edge computing (MEC) paves the way to alleviate the burden of energy and computation of mobile users (MUs) by offloading tasks to the network edge. To enhance the MEC server utilization by optimizing its resource allocation, a well-designed pricing strategy is indispensable. In this paper, we consider the edge offloading scenario with energy harvesting devices, and propose a dynamic differential pricing system (DDPS), which determines the price per unit time according to the usage of computing resources to improve the edge server utilization. Firstly, we propose an offloading decision algorithm to decide whether to conduct the offloading operation and how much data to be offloaded if conducted, the algorithm determines offloading operation by balancing the energy harvested with the energy consumed. Secondly, for the offloading case, we formulate the game between the MUs and the server as a Stackelberg game, and propose a differential pricing algorithm to determine the optimal computing resources required by MUs. Furthermore, the proposed algorithm also reallocates computing resources for delay-sensitive devices while server resources are surplus after the initial allocation, aiming to make full use of the server computing resources. Extensive simulations are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed DDPS scheme.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [263]
标题:  CLOSURE: Fast Quantification of Pose Uncertainty Sets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09990
作者:  Yihuai Gao,  Yukai Tang,  Han Qi,  Heng Yang
备注:  
Abstract:We investigate uncertainty quantification of 6D pose estimation from keypoint measurements. Assuming unknown-but-bounded measurement noises, a pose uncertainty set (PURSE) is a subset of SE(3) that contains all possible 6D poses compatible with the measurements. Despite being simple to formulate and its ability to embed uncertainty, the PURSE is difficult to manipulate and interpret due to the many abstract nonconvex polynomial constraints. An appealing simplification of PURSE is to find its minimum enclosing geodesic ball (MEGB), i.e., a point pose estimation with minimum worst-case error bound. We contribute (i) a dynamical system perspective, and (ii) a fast algorithm to inner approximate the MEGB. Particularly, we show the PURSE corresponds to the feasible set of a constrained dynamical system, and this perspective allows us to design an algorithm to densely sample the boundary of the PURSE through strategic random walks. We then use the miniball algorithm to compute the MEGB of PURSE samples, leading to an inner approximation. Our algorithm is named CLOSURE (enClosing baLl frOm purSe boUndaRy samplEs) and it enables computing a certificate of approximation tightness by calculating the relative size ratio between the inner approximation and the outer approximation. Running on a single RTX 3090 GPU, CLOSURE achieves the relative ratio of 92.8% on the LM-O object pose estimation dataset and 91.4% on the 3DMatch point cloud registration dataset with the average runtime less than 0.2 second. Obtaining comparable worst-case error bound but 398x and 833x faster than the outer approximation GRCC, CLOSURE enables uncertainty quantification of 6D pose estimation to be implemented in real-time robot perception applications.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [264]
标题:  Interactive Distance Field Mapping and Planning to Enable Human-Robot  Collaboration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09988
作者:  Usama Ali,  Lan Wu,  Adrian Mueller,  Fouad Sukkar,  Tobias Kaupp,  Teresa Vidal-Calleja
备注:  
Abstract:Human-robot collaborative applications require scene representations that are kept up-to-date and facilitate safe motions in dynamic scenes. In this letter, we present an interactive distance field mapping and planning (IDMP) framework that handles dynamic objects and collision avoidance through an efficient representation. We define \textit{interactive} mapping and planning as the process of creating and updating the representation of the scene online while simultaneously planning and adapting the robot's actions based on that representation. Given depth sensor data, our framework builds a continuous field that allows to query the distance and gradient to the closest obstacle at any required position in 3D space. The key aspect of this work is an efficient Gaussian Process field that performs incremental updates and implicitly handles dynamic objects with a simple and elegant formulation based on a temporary latent model. In terms of mapping, IDMP is able to fuse point cloud data from single and multiple sensors, query the free space at any spatial resolution, and deal with moving objects without semantics. In terms of planning, IDMP allows seamless integration with gradient-based motion planners facilitating fast re-planning for collision-free navigation. The framework is evaluated on both real and synthetic datasets. A comparison with similar state-of-the-art frameworks shows superior performance when handling dynamic objects and comparable or better performance in the accuracy of the computed distance and gradient field. Finally, we show how the framework can be used for fast motion planning in the presence of moving objects. An accompanying video, code, and datasets are made publicly available this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [265]
标题:  Trusting the Search: Unraveling Human Trust in Health Information from  Google and ChatGPT
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09987
作者:  Xin Sun,  Rongjun Ma,  Xiaochang Zhao,  Zhuying Li,  Janne Lindqvist,  Abdallah El Ali,  Jos A. Bosch
备注:  24 pages
Abstract:People increasingly rely on online sources for health information seeking due to their convenience and timeliness, traditionally using search engines like Google as the primary search agent. Recently, the emergence of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) has made Large Language Model (LLM) powered conversational agents such as ChatGPT a viable alternative for health information search. However, while trust is crucial for adopting the online health advice, the factors influencing people's trust judgments in health information provided by LLM-powered conversational agents remain unclear. To address this, we conducted a mixed-methods, within-subjects lab study (N=21) to explore how interactions with different agents (ChatGPT vs. Google) across three health search tasks influence participants' trust judgments of the search results as well as the search agents themselves. Our key findings showed that: (a) participants' trust levels in ChatGPT were significantly higher than Google in the context of health information seeking; (b) there is a significant correlation between trust in health-related information and trust in the search agent, however only for Google; (c) the type of search tasks did not affect participants' perceived trust; and (d) participants' prior knowledge, the style of information presentation, and the interactive manner of using search agents were key determinants of trust in the health-related information. Our study taps into differences in trust perceptions when using traditional search engines compared to LLM-powered conversational agents. We highlight the potential role LLMs play in health-related information-seeking contexts, where they excel as stepping stones for further search. We contribute key factors and considerations for ensuring effective and reliable personal health information seeking in the age of generative AI.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [266]
标题:  Designing Sousveillance Tools for Gig Workers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09986
作者:  Kimberly Do,  Maya De Los Santos,  Michael Muller,  Saiph Savage
备注:  Paper accepted at ACM CHI conference, 3 figures, 30 pages
Abstract:As independently-contracted employees, gig workers disproportionately suffer the consequences of workplace surveillance, which include increased pressures to work, breaches of privacy, and decreased digital autonomy. Despite the negative impacts of workplace surveillance, gig workers lack the tools, strategies, and workplace social support to protect themselves against these harms. Meanwhile, some critical theorists have proposed sousveillance as a potential means of countering such abuses of power, whereby those under surveillance monitor those in positions of authority (e.g., gig workers collect data about requesters/platforms). To understand the benefits of sousveillance systems in the gig economy, we conducted semi-structured interviews and led co-design activities with gig workers. We use "care ethics" as a guiding concept to understand our interview and co-design data, while also focusing on empathic sousveillance technology design recommendations. Through our study, we identify gig workers' attitudes towards and past experiences with sousveillance. We also uncover the type of sousveillance technologies imagined by workers, provide design recommendations, and finish by discussing how to create empowering, empathic spaces on gig platforms.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [267]
标题:  Joint Optimization of STAR-RIS Assisted SWIPT Communication Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09983
作者:  Junlong Yang
备注:  
Abstract:Simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) is an effective energy-saving technology, but its efficiency is hindered by environmental factors. The introduction of reconfigurable intelligent surfaces (RIS) has alleviated this issue, although it still faces significant constraints due to geographical limitations. This paper proposes a scheme that employs a simultaneously transmitting and reflecting (STAR)-RIS to assist SWIPT. It can overcome this limitation, achieve higher degrees of freedom (DoF), and provide better quality of service (QoS) for users on both sides of the ground. Meanwhile, we have considered a hybrid device based on a power splitting, which is capable of both energy harvesting and information decoding. We have proposed an efficient alternating optimization (AO) method to optimize the phase and amplitude vectors for reflection and transmission, beamforming and the optimal power splitting ratio, achieving an optimal balance between data rate and energy efficiency. Finally, simulation results demonstrate that the sum rate of the proposed model is superior to traditional RIS and other benchmark schemes.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [268]
标题:  Controllable Text-to-3D Generation via Surface-Aligned Gaussian  Splatting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09981
作者:  Zhiqi Li,  Yiming Chen,  Lingzhe Zhao,  Peidong Liu
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:While text-to-3D and image-to-3D generation tasks have received considerable attention, one important but under-explored field between them is controllable text-to-3D generation, which we mainly focus on in this work. To address this task, 1) we introduce Multi-view ControlNet (MVControl), a novel neural network architecture designed to enhance existing pre-trained multi-view diffusion models by integrating additional input conditions, such as edge, depth, normal, and scribble maps. Our innovation lies in the introduction of a conditioning module that controls the base diffusion model using both local and global embeddings, which are computed from the input condition images and camera poses. Once trained, MVControl is able to offer 3D diffusion guidance for optimization-based 3D generation. And, 2) we propose an efficient multi-stage 3D generation pipeline that leverages the benefits of recent large reconstruction models and score distillation algorithm. Building upon our MVControl architecture, we employ a unique hybrid diffusion guidance method to direct the optimization process. In pursuit of efficiency, we adopt 3D Gaussians as our representation instead of the commonly used implicit representations. We also pioneer the use of SuGaR, a hybrid representation that binds Gaussians to mesh triangle faces. This approach alleviates the issue of poor geometry in 3D Gaussians and enables the direct sculpting of fine-grained geometry on the mesh. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves robust generalization and enables the controllable generation of high-quality 3D content.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [269]
标题:  eKichabi v2: Designing and Scaling a Dual-Platform Agricultural  Technology in Rural Tanzania
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09980
作者:  Ananditha Raghunath,  Alexander Metzger,  Hans Easton,  XunMei Liu,  Fanchong Wang,  Yunqi Wang,  Yunwei Zhao,  Hosea Mpogole,  Richard Anderson
备注:  
Abstract:Although farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa are accessing feature phones and smartphones at historically high rates, they face challenges finding a robust network of agricultural contacts. With collaborators, we conduct a quantitative survey of 1014 agricultural households in Kagera, Tanzania to characterize technology access, use, and comfort levels in the region. Recognizing the paucity of research on dual-platform technologies that cater to both feature phone and smartphone users, we develop and deploy eKichabi v2, a searchable directory of 9833 agriculture-related enterprises accessible via a USSD application and an Android application. To bridge the gap in affordances between the two applications, we conduct a mixed methods pilot leveraging mobile money agents as intermediators for our USSD application's users. Through our investigations, we identify the advantages, obstacles, and critical considerations in the design, implementation, and scalability of agricultural information systems tailored to both feature phone and smartphone users in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [270]
标题:  EfficientVMamba: Atrous Selective Scan for Light Weight Visual Mamba
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09977
作者:  Xiaohuan Pei,  Tao Huang,  Chang Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Prior efforts in light-weight model development mainly centered on CNN and Transformer-based designs yet faced persistent challenges. CNNs adept at local feature extraction compromise resolution while Transformers offer global reach but escalate computational demands $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$. This ongoing trade-off between accuracy and efficiency remains a significant hurdle. Recently, state space models (SSMs), such as Mamba, have shown outstanding performance and competitiveness in various tasks such as language modeling and computer vision, while reducing the time complexity of global information extraction to $\mathcal{O}(N)$. Inspired by this, this work proposes to explore the potential of visual state space models in light-weight model design and introduce a novel efficient model variant dubbed EfficientVMamba. Concretely, our EfficientVMamba integrates a atrous-based selective scan approach by efficient skip sampling, constituting building blocks designed to harness both global and local representational features. Additionally, we investigate the integration between SSM blocks and convolutions, and introduce an efficient visual state space block combined with an additional convolution branch, which further elevate the model performance. Experimental results show that, EfficientVMamba scales down the computational complexity while yields competitive results across a variety of vision tasks. For example, our EfficientVMamba-S with $1.3$G FLOPs improves Vim-Ti with $1.5$G FLOPs by a large margin of $5.6\%$ accuracy on ImageNet. Code is available at: \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [271]
标题:  AD3: Implicit Action is the Key for World Models to Distinguish the  Diverse Visual Distractors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09976
作者:  Yucen Wang,  Shenghua Wan,  Le Gan,  Shuai Feng,  De-Chuan Zhan
备注:  
Abstract:Model-based methods have significantly contributed to distinguishing task-irrelevant distractors for visual control. However, prior research has primarily focused on heterogeneous distractors like noisy background videos, leaving homogeneous distractors that closely resemble controllable agents largely unexplored, which poses significant challenges to existing methods. To tackle this problem, we propose Implicit Action Generator (IAG) to learn the implicit actions of visual distractors, and present a new algorithm named implicit Action-informed Diverse visual Distractors Distinguisher (AD3), that leverages the action inferred by IAG to train separated world models. Implicit actions effectively capture the behavior of background distractors, aiding in distinguishing the task-irrelevant components, and the agent can optimize the policy within the task-relevant state space. Our method achieves superior performance on various visual control tasks featuring both heterogeneous and homogeneous distractors. The indispensable role of implicit actions learned by IAG is also empirically validated.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [272]
标题:  Skeleton-Based Human Action Recognition with Noisy Labels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09975
作者:  Yi Xu,  Kunyu Peng,  Di Wen,  Ruiping Liu,  Junwei Zheng,  Yufan Chen,  Jiaming Zhang,  Alina Roitberg,  Kailun Yang,  Rainer Stiefelhagen
备注:  The source code will be made accessible at this https URL
Abstract:Understanding human actions from body poses is critical for assistive robots sharing space with humans in order to make informed and safe decisions about the next interaction. However, precise temporal localization and annotation of activity sequences is time-consuming and the resulting labels are often noisy. If not effectively addressed, label noise negatively affects the model's training, resulting in lower recognition quality. Despite its importance, addressing label noise for skeleton-based action recognition has been overlooked so far. In this study, we bridge this gap by implementing a framework that augments well-established skeleton-based human action recognition methods with label-denoising strategies from various research areas to serve as the initial benchmark. Observations reveal that these baselines yield only marginal performance when dealing with sparse skeleton data. Consequently, we introduce a novel methodology, NoiseEraSAR, which integrates global sample selection, co-teaching, and Cross-Modal Mixture-of-Experts (CM-MOE) strategies, aimed at mitigating the adverse impacts of label noise. Our proposed approach demonstrates better performance on the established benchmark, setting new state-of-the-art standards. The source code for this study will be made accessible at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [273]
标题:  GET: Unlocking the Multi-modal Potential of CLIP for Generalized  Category Discovery
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09974
作者:  Enguang Wang,  Zhimao Peng,  Zhengyuan Xie,  Xialei Liu,  Ming-Ming Cheng
备注:  
Abstract:Given unlabelled datasets containing both old and new categories, generalized category discovery (GCD) aims to accurately discover new classes while correctly classifying old classes, leveraging the class concepts learned from labeled samples. Current GCD methods only use a single visual modality of information, resulting in poor classification of visually similar classes. Though certain classes are visually confused, their text information might be distinct, motivating us to introduce text information into the GCD task. However, the lack of class names for unlabelled data makes it impractical to utilize text information. To tackle this challenging problem, in this paper, we propose a Text Embedding Synthesizer (TES) to generate pseudo text embeddings for unlabelled samples. Specifically, our TES leverages the property that CLIP can generate aligned vision-language features, converting visual embeddings into tokens of the CLIP's text encoder to generate pseudo text embeddings. Besides, we employ a dual-branch framework, through the joint learning and instance consistency of different modality branches, visual and semantic information mutually enhance each other, promoting the interaction and fusion of visual and text embedding space. Our method unlocks the multi-modal potentials of CLIP and outperforms the baseline methods by a large margin on all GCD benchmarks, achieving new state-of-the-art. The code will be released at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [274]
标题:  Den-SOFT: Dense Space-Oriented Light Field DataseT for 6-DOF Immersive  Experience
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09973
作者:  Xiaohang Yu,  Zhengxian Yang,  Shi Pan,  Yuqi Han,  Haoxiang Wang,  Jun Zhang,  Shi Yan,  Borong Lin,  Lei Yang,  Tao Yu,  Lu Fang
备注:  
Abstract:We have built a custom mobile multi-camera large-space dense light field capture system, which provides a series of high-quality and sufficiently dense light field images for various scenarios. Our aim is to contribute to the development of popular 3D scene reconstruction algorithms such as IBRnet, NeRF, and 3D Gaussian splitting. More importantly, the collected dataset, which is much denser than existing datasets, may also inspire space-oriented light field reconstruction, which is potentially different from object-centric 3D reconstruction, for immersive VR/AR experiences. We utilized a total of 40 GoPro 10 cameras, capturing images of 5k resolution. The number of photos captured for each scene is no less than 1000, and the average density (view number within a unit sphere) is 134.68. It is also worth noting that our system is capable of efficiently capturing large outdoor scenes. Addressing the current lack of large-space and dense light field datasets, we made efforts to include elements such as sky, reflections, lights and shadows that are of interest to researchers in the field of 3D reconstruction during the data capture process. Finally, we validated the effectiveness of our provided dataset on three popular algorithms and also integrated the reconstructed 3DGS results into the Unity engine, demonstrating the potential of utilizing our datasets to enhance the realism of virtual reality (VR) and create feasible interactive spaces. The dataset is available at our project website.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [275]
标题:  Think Twice Before Assure: Confidence Estimation for Large Language  Models through Reflection on Multiple Answers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09972
作者:  Moxin Li,  Wenjie Wang,  Fuli Feng,  Fengbin Zhu,  Qifan Wang,  Tat-Seng Chua
备注:  Under review
Abstract:Confidence estimation aiming to evaluate output trustability is crucial for the application of large language models (LLM), especially the black-box ones. Existing confidence estimation of LLM is typically not calibrated due to the overconfidence of LLM on its generated incorrect answers. Existing approaches addressing the overconfidence issue are hindered by a significant limitation that they merely consider the confidence of one answer generated by LLM. To tackle this limitation, we propose a novel paradigm that thoroughly evaluates the trustability of multiple candidate answers to mitigate the overconfidence on incorrect answers. Building upon this paradigm, we introduce a two-step framework, which firstly instructs LLM to reflect and provide justifications for each answer, and then aggregates the justifications for comprehensive confidence estimation. This framework can be integrated with existing confidence estimation approaches for superior calibration. Experimental results on six datasets of three tasks demonstrate the rationality and effectiveness of the proposed framework.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [276]
标题:  Advancing Object Goal Navigation Through LLM-enhanced Object Affinities  Transfer
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09971
作者:  Mengying Lin,  Yaran Chen,  Dongbin Zhao,  Zhaoran Wang
备注:  
Abstract:In object goal navigation, agents navigate towards objects identified by category labels using visual and spatial information. Previously, solely network-based methods typically rely on historical data for object affinities estimation, lacking adaptability to new environments and unseen targets. Simultaneously, employing Large Language Models (LLMs) for navigation as either planners or agents, though offering a broad knowledge base, is cost-inefficient and lacks targeted historical experience. Addressing these challenges, we present the LLM-enhanced Object Affinities Transfer (LOAT) framework, integrating LLM-derived object semantics with network-based approaches to leverage experiential object affinities, thus improving adaptability in unfamiliar settings. LOAT employs a dual-module strategy: a generalized affinities module for accessing LLMs' vast knowledge and an experiential affinities module for applying learned object semantic relationships, complemented by a dynamic fusion module harmonizing these information sources based on temporal context. The resulting scores activate semantic maps before feeding into downstream policies, enhancing navigation systems with context-aware inputs. Our evaluations in AI2-THOR and Habitat simulators demonstrate improvements in both navigation success rates and efficiency, validating the LOAT's efficacy in integrating LLM insights for improved object goal navigation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [277]
标题:  Prediction of Vessel Arrival Time to Pilotage Area Using Multi-Data  Fusion and Deep Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09969
作者:  Xiaocai Zhang,  Xiuju Fu,  Zhe Xiao,  Haiyan Xu,  Xiaoyang Wei,  Jimmy Koh,  Daichi Ogawa,  Zheng Qin
备注:  The 26th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC 2023)
Abstract:This paper investigates the prediction of vessels' arrival time to the pilotage area using multi-data fusion and deep learning approaches. Firstly, the vessel arrival contour is extracted based on Multivariate Kernel Density Estimation (MKDE) and clustering. Secondly, multiple data sources, including Automatic Identification System (AIS), pilotage booking information, and meteorological data, are fused before latent feature extraction. Thirdly, a Temporal Convolutional Network (TCN) framework that incorporates a residual mechanism is constructed to learn the hidden arrival patterns of the vessels. Extensive tests on two real-world data sets from Singapore have been conducted and the following promising results have been obtained: 1) fusion of pilotage booking information and meteorological data improves the prediction accuracy, with pilotage booking information having a more significant impact; 2) using discrete embedding for the meteorological data performs better than using continuous embedding; 3) the TCN outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline methods in regression tasks, exhibiting Mean Absolute Error (MAE) ranging from 4.58 min to 4.86 min; and 4) approximately 89.41% to 90.61% of the absolute prediction residuals fall within a time frame of 10 min.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [278]
标题:  Take Care of Your Prompt Bias! Investigating and Mitigating Prompt Bias  in Factual Knowledge Extraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09963
作者:  Ziyang Xu,  Keqin Peng,  Liang Ding,  Dacheng Tao,  Xiliang Lu
备注:  Accepted by COLING 2024
Abstract:Recent research shows that pre-trained language models (PLMs) suffer from "prompt bias" in factual knowledge extraction, i.e., prompts tend to introduce biases toward specific labels. However, the extent and impact of prompt bias within the model remain underexplored. In response, this paper quantifies the bias with various types of prompts and assesses their impact on different benchmarks. We show that: 1) all prompts in the experiments exhibit non-negligible bias, with gradient-based prompts like AutoPrompt and OptiPrompt displaying significantly higher levels of bias; 2) prompt bias can amplify benchmark accuracy unreasonably by overfitting the test datasets, especially on imbalanced datasets like LAMA. Based on these findings, we propose a representation-based approach to mitigate the prompt bias during inference time. Specifically, we first estimate the biased representation using prompt-only querying, and then remove it from the model's internal representations to generate the debiased representations, which are used to produce the final debiased outputs. Experiments across various prompts, PLMs, and benchmarks show that our approach can not only correct the overfitted performance caused by prompt bias, but also significantly improve the prompt retrieval capability (up to 10% absolute performance gain). Our findings shed new light on the underlying predicting mechanisms of prompt-based queries in PLMs. Hopefully, our plug-and-play approach can be a golden standard to strengthen PLMs toward reliable knowledge bases. Code and data are released in this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [279]
标题:  ViTCN: Vision Transformer Contrastive Network For Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09962
作者:  Bo Song,  Yuanhao Xu,  Yichao Wu
备注:  5 pages, 2 figures , in proceeding of 5th International Seminar on Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Information Technology
Abstract:Machine learning models have achieved significant milestones in various domains, for example, computer vision models have an exceptional result in object recognition, and in natural language processing, where Large Language Models (LLM) like GPT can start a conversation with human-like proficiency. However, abstract reasoning remains a challenge for these models, Can AI really thinking like a human? still be a question yet to be answered. Raven Progressive Matrices (RPM) is a metric designed to assess human reasoning capabilities. It presents a series of eight images as a problem set, where the participant should try to discover the underlying rules among these images and select the most appropriate image from eight possible options that best completes the sequence. This task always be used to test human reasoning abilities and IQ. Zhang et al proposed a dataset called RAVEN which can be used to test Machine Learning model abstract reasoning ability. In this paper, we purposed Vision Transformer Contrastive Network which build on previous work with the Contrastive Perceptual Inference network (CoPiNet), which set a new benchmark for permutationinvariant models Raven Progressive Matrices by incorporating contrast effects from psychology, cognition, and education, and extends this foundation by leveraging the cutting-edge Vision Transformer architecture. This integration aims to further refine the machine ability to process and reason about spatial-temporal information from pixel-level inputs and global wise features on RAVEN dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [280]
标题:  Search-based Ordered Password Generation of Autoregressive Neural  Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09954
作者:  Min Jin,  Junbin Ye,  Rongxuan Shen,  Huaxing Lu
备注:  This paper is in Peer Review
Abstract:Passwords are the most widely used method of authentication and password guessing is the essential part of password cracking and password security research. The progress of deep learning technology provides a promising way to improve the efficiency of password guessing. However, current research on neural network password guessing methods mostly focuses on model structure and has overlooked the generation method. Due to the randomness of sampling, not only the generated passwords have a large number of duplicates, but also the order in which passwords generated is random, leading to inefficient password attacks. In this paper, we propose SOPG, a search-based ordered password generation method, which enables the password guessing model based on autoregressive neural network to generate passwords in approximately descending order of probability. Experiment on comparison of SOPG and Random sampling shows passwords generated by SOPG do not repeat, and when they reach the same cover rate, SOPG requires fewer inferences and far fewer generated passwords than Random sampling, which brings great efficiency improvement to subsequent password attacks. We build SOPGesGPT, a password guessing model based on GPT, using SOPG to generate passwords. Compared with the most influential models OMEN, FLA, PassGAN, VAEPass and the latest model PassGPT in one-site test, experiments show that SOPGesGPT is far ahead in terms of both effective rate and cover rate. As to cover rate that everyone recognizes, SOPGesGPT reaches 35.06%, which is 254%, 298%, 421%, 380%, 81% higher than OMEN, FLA, PassGAN, VAEPass, and PassGPT respectively.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [281]
标题:  Online GNN Evaluation Under Test-time Graph Distribution Shifts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09953
作者:  Xin Zheng,  Dongjin Song,  Qingsong Wen,  Bo Du,  Shirui Pan
备注:  Accepted by ICLR-2024
Abstract:Evaluating the performance of a well-trained GNN model on real-world graphs is a pivotal step for reliable GNN online deployment and serving. Due to a lack of test node labels and unknown potential training-test graph data distribution shifts, conventional model evaluation encounters limitations in calculating performance metrics (e.g., test error) and measuring graph data-level discrepancies, particularly when the training graph used for developing GNNs remains unobserved during test time. In this paper, we study a new research problem, online GNN evaluation, which aims to provide valuable insights into the well-trained GNNs's ability to effectively generalize to real-world unlabeled graphs under the test-time graph distribution shifts. Concretely, we develop an effective learning behavior discrepancy score, dubbed LeBeD, to estimate the test-time generalization errors of well-trained GNN models. Through a novel GNN re-training strategy with a parameter-free optimality criterion, the proposed LeBeD comprehensively integrates learning behavior discrepancies from both node prediction and structure reconstruction perspectives. This enables the effective evaluation of the well-trained GNNs' ability to capture test node semantics and structural representations, making it an expressive metric for estimating the generalization error in online GNN evaluation. Extensive experiments on real-world test graphs under diverse graph distribution shifts could verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, revealing its strong correlation with ground-truth test errors on various well-trained GNN models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [282]
标题:  RadCLIP: Enhancing Radiologic Image Analysis through Contrastive  Language-Image Pre-training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09948
作者:  Zhixiu Lu,  Hailong Li,  Lili He
备注:  
Abstract:The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) with radiology has marked a transformative era in medical diagnostics. Vision foundation models have been adopted to enhance radiologic imaging analysis. However, the distinct complexities of radiological imaging, including the interpretation of 2D and 3D radiological data, pose unique challenges that existing models, trained on general non-medical images, fail to address adequately. To bridge this gap and capitalize on the diagnostic precision required in medical imaging, we introduce RadCLIP: a pioneering cross-modal foundational model that harnesses Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) to refine radiologic image analysis. RadCLIP incorporates a novel 3D slice pooling mechanism tailored for volumetric image analysis and is trained using a comprehensive and diverse dataset of radiologic image-text pairs. Our evaluations demonstrate that RadCLIP effectively aligns radiological images with their corresponding textual annotations, and in the meantime, offers a robust vision backbone for radiologic imagery with significant promise.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [283]
标题:  Shifting Focus: From Global Semantics to Local Prominent Features in  Swin-Transformer for Knee Osteoarthritis Severity Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09947
作者:  Aymen Sekhri,  Marouane Tliba,  Mohamed Amine Kerkouri,  Yassine Nasser,  Aladine Chetouani,  Alessandro Bruno,  Rachid Jennane
备注:  
Abstract:Conventional imaging diagnostics frequently encounter bottlenecks due to manual inspection, which can lead to delays and inconsistencies. Although deep learning offers a pathway to automation and enhanced accuracy, foundational models in computer vision often emphasize global context at the expense of local details, which are vital for medical imaging diagnostics. To address this, we harness the Swin Transformer's capacity to discern extended spatial dependencies within images through the hierarchical framework. Our novel contribution lies in refining local feature representations, orienting them specifically toward the final distribution of the classifier. This method ensures that local features are not only preserved but are also enriched with task-specific information, enhancing their relevance and detail at every hierarchical level. By implementing this strategy, our model demonstrates significant robustness and precision, as evidenced by extensive validation of two established benchmarks for Knee OsteoArthritis (KOA) grade classification. These results highlight our approach's effectiveness and its promising implications for the future of medical imaging diagnostics. Our implementation is available on this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [284]
标题:  Global Convergence Guarantees for Federated Policy Gradient Methods with  Adversaries
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09940
作者:  Swetha Ganesh,  Jiayu Chen,  Gugan Thoppe,  Vaneet Aggarwal
备注:  27 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Federated Reinforcement Learning (FRL) allows multiple agents to collaboratively build a decision making policy without sharing raw trajectories. However, if a small fraction of these agents are adversarial, it can lead to catastrophic results. We propose a policy gradient based approach that is robust to adversarial agents which can send arbitrary values to the server. Under this setting, our results form the first global convergence guarantees with general parametrization. These results demonstrate resilience with adversaries, while achieving sample complexity of order $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}\left( \frac{1}{\epsilon^2} \left( \frac{1}{N-f} + \frac{f^2}{(N-f)^2}\right)\right)$, where $N$ is the total number of agents and $f$ is the number of adversarial agents.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [285]
标题:  Quantization Effects on Neural Networks Perception: How would  quantization change the perceptual field of vision models?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09939
作者:  Mohamed Amine Kerkouri,  Marouane Tliba,  Aladine Chetouani,  Alessandro Bruno
备注:  
Abstract:Neural network quantization is an essential technique for deploying models on resource-constrained devices. However, its impact on model perceptual fields, particularly regarding class activation maps (CAMs), remains a significant area of investigation. In this study, we explore how quantization alters the spatial recognition ability of the perceptual field of vision models, shedding light on the alignment between CAMs and visual saliency maps across various architectures. Leveraging a dataset of 10,000 images from ImageNet, we rigorously evaluate six diverse foundational CNNs: VGG16, ResNet50, EfficientNet, MobileNet, SqueezeNet, and DenseNet. We uncover nuanced changes in CAMs and their alignment with human visual saliency maps through systematic quantization techniques applied to these models. Our findings reveal the varying sensitivities of different architectures to quantization and underscore its implications for real-world applications in terms of model performance and interpretability. The primary contribution of this work revolves around deepening our understanding of neural network quantization, providing insights crucial for deploying efficient and interpretable models in practical settings.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [286]
标题:  Blockchain-enabled Circular Economy -- Collaborative Responsibility in  Solar Panel Recycling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09937
作者:  Mohammad Jabed Morshed Chowdhury,  Naveed Ul Hassan,  Wayes Tushar,  Dustin Niyato,  Tapan Saha,  H Vincent Poor,  Chau Yuen
备注:  Accepted in IEEE Industrial Electronics Magazine
Abstract:The adoption of renewable energy resources, such as solar power, is on the rise. However, the excessive installation and lack of recycling facilities pose environmental risks. This paper suggests a circular economy approach to address the issue. By implementing blockchain technology, the end-of-life (EOL) of solar panels can be tracked, and responsibilities can be assigned to relevant stakeholders. The degradation of panels can be monetized by tracking users' energy-related activities, and these funds can be used for future recycling. A new coin, the recycling coin (RC-Coin), incentivizes solar panel recycling and utilizes decentralized finance to stabilize the coin price and supply issue.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [287]
标题:  Design and Control Co-Optimization for Automated Design Iteration of  Dexterous Anthropomorphic Soft Robotic Hands
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09933
作者:  Pragna Mannam,  Xingyu Liu,  Ding Zhao,  Jean Oh,  Nancy Pollard
备注:  
Abstract:We automate soft robotic hand design iteration by co-optimizing design and control policy for dexterous manipulation skills in simulation. Our design iteration pipeline combines genetic algorithms and policy transfer to learn control policies for nearly 400 hand designs, testing grasp quality under external force disturbances. We validate the optimized designs in the real world through teleoperation of pickup and reorient manipulation tasks. Our real world evaluation, from over 900 teleoperated tasks, shows that the trend in design performance in simulation resembles that of the real world. Furthermore, we show that optimized hand designs from our approach outperform existing soft robot hands from prior work in the real world. The results highlight the usefulness of simulation in guiding parameter choices for anthropomorphic soft robotic hand systems, and the effectiveness of our automated design iteration approach, despite the sim-to-real gap.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [288]
标题:  Tensor Deli: Tensor Completion for Low CP-Rank Tensors via Random  Sampling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09932
作者:  Cullen Haselby,  Mark Iwen,  Santhosh Karnik,  Rongrong Wang
备注:  25 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:We propose two provably accurate methods for low CP-rank tensor completion - one using adaptive sampling and one using nonadaptive sampling. Both of our algorithms combine matrix completion techniques for a small number of slices along with Jennrich's algorithm to learn the factors corresponding to the first two modes, and then solve systems of linear equations to learn the factors corresponding to the remaining modes. For order-$3$ tensors, our algorithms follow a "sandwich" sampling strategy that more densely samples a few outer slices (the bread), and then more sparsely samples additional inner slices (the bbq-braised tofu) for the final completion. For an order-$d$, CP-rank $r$ tensor of size $n \times \cdots \times n$ that satisfies mild assumptions, our adaptive sampling algorithm recovers the CP-decomposition with high probability while using at most $O(nr\log r + dnr)$ samples and $O(n^2r^2+dnr^2)$ operations. Our nonadaptive sampling algorithm recovers the CP-decomposition with high probability while using at most $O(dnr^2\log n + nr\log^2 n)$ samples and runs in polynomial time. Numerical experiments demonstrate that both of our methods work well on noisy synthetic data as well as on real world data.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [289]
标题:  Quality-Diversity Actor-Critic: Learning High-Performing and Diverse  Behaviors via Value and Successor Features Critics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09930
作者:  Luca Grillotti,  Maxence Faldor,  Borja G. León,  Antoine Cully (Imperial College London)
备注:  The first two authors contributed equally to this work
Abstract:A key aspect of intelligence is the ability to demonstrate a broad spectrum of behaviors for adapting to unexpected situations. Over the past decade, advancements in deep reinforcement learning have led to groundbreaking achievements to solve complex continuous control tasks. However, most approaches return only one solution specialized for a specific problem. We introduce Quality-Diversity Actor-Critic (QDAC), an off-policy actor-critic deep reinforcement learning algorithm that leverages a value function critic and a successor features critic to learn high-performing and diverse behaviors. In this framework, the actor optimizes an objective that seamlessly unifies both critics using constrained optimization to (1) maximize return, while (2) executing diverse skills. Compared with other Quality-Diversity methods, QDAC achieves significantly higher performance and more diverse behaviors on six challenging continuous control locomotion tasks. We also demonstrate that we can harness the learned skills to adapt better than other baselines to five perturbed environments. Finally, qualitative analyses showcase a range of remarkable behaviors, available at: this http URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [290]
标题:  Surrogate Assisted Monte Carlo Tree Search in Combinatorial Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09925
作者:  Saeid Amiri,  Parisa Zehtabi,  Danial Dervovic,  Michael Cashmore
备注:  Accepted to the ICAPS Planning and Scheduling for Financial Services (FINPLAN) 2023 workshop
Abstract:Industries frequently adjust their facilities network by opening new branches in promising areas and closing branches in areas where they expect low profits. In this paper, we examine a particular class of facility location problems. Our objective is to minimize the loss of sales resulting from the removal of several retail stores. However, estimating sales accurately is expensive and time-consuming. To overcome this challenge, we leverage Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) assisted by a surrogate model that computes evaluations faster. Results suggest that MCTS supported by a fast surrogate function can generate solutions faster while maintaining a consistent solution compared to MCTS that does not benefit from the surrogate function.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [291]
标题:  Optimal Sequencing and Motion Control in a Roundabout with Safety  Guarantees
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09923
作者:  Yingqing Chen,  Christos G. Cassandras,  Kaiyuan Xu
备注:  
Abstract:This paper develops a controller for Connected and Automated Vehicles (CAVs) traversing a single-lane roundabout. The controller simultaneously determines the optimal sequence and associated optimal motion control jointly minimizing travel time and energy consumption while providing speed-dependent safety guarantees, as well as satisfying velocity and acceleration constraints. This is achieved by integrating (a) Model Predictive Control (MPC) to enable receding horizon optimization with (b) Control Lyapunov-Barrier Functions (CLBFs) to guarantee convergence to a safe set in finite time, thus providing an extended stability region compared to the use of classic Control Barrier Functions (CBFs). The proposed MPC-CLBF framework addresses both infeasibility and myopic control issues commonly encountered when controlling CAVs over multiple interconnected control zones in a traffic network, which has been a limitation of prior work on CAVs going through roundabouts, while still providing safety guarantees. Simulations under varying traffic demands demonstrate the controller's effectiveness and stability.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [292]
标题:  Predicting Generalization of AI Colonoscopy Models to Unseen Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09920
作者:  Joel Shor,  Carson McNeil,  Yotam Intrator,  Joseph R Ledsam,  Hiro-o Yamano,  Daisuke Tsurumaru,  Hiroki Kayama,  Atsushi Hamabe,  Koji Ando,  Mitsuhiko Ota,  Haruei Ogino,  Hiroshi Nakase,  Kaho Kobayashi,  Masaaki Miyo,  Eiji Oki,  Ichiro Takemasa,  Ehud Rivlin,  Roman Goldenberg
备注:  
Abstract:Background and aims Generalizability of AI colonoscopy algorithms is important for wider adoption in clinical practice. However, current techniques for evaluating performance on unseen data require expensive and time-intensive labels. Methods We use a "Masked Siamese Network" (MSN) to identify novel phenomena in unseen data and predict polyp detector performance. MSN is trained to predict masked out regions of polyp images, without any labels. We test MSN's ability to be trained on data only from Israel and detect unseen techniques, narrow-band imaging (NBI) and chromendoscoy (CE), on colonoscopes from Japan (354 videos, 128 hours). We also test MSN's ability to predict performance of Computer Aided Detection (CADe) of polyps on colonoscopies from both countries, even though MSN is not trained on data from Japan. Results MSN correctly identifies NBI and CE as less similar to Israel whitelight than Japan whitelight (bootstrapped z-test, |z| > 496, p < 10-8 for both) using the label-free Frechet distance. MSN detects NBI with 99% accuracy, predicts CE better than our heuristic (90% vs 79% accuracy) despite being trained only on whitelight, and is the only method that is robust to noisy labels. MSN predicts CADe polyp detector performance on in-domain Israel and out-of-domain Japan colonoscopies (r=0.79, 0.37 respectively). With few examples of Japan detector performance to train on, MSN prediction of Japan performance improves (r=0.56). Conclusion Our technique can identify distribution shifts in clinical data and can predict CADe detector performance on unseen data, without labels. Our self-supervised approach can aid in detecting when data in practice is different from training, such as between hospitals or data has meaningfully shifted from training. MSN has potential for application to medical image domains beyond colonoscopy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [293]
标题:  Recurrent Drafter for Fast Speculative Decoding in Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09919
作者:  Aonan Zhang,  Chong Wang,  Yi Wang,  Xuanyu Zhang,  Yunfei Cheng
备注:  11 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:In this paper, we introduce an improved approach of speculative decoding aimed at enhancing the efficiency of serving large language models. Our method capitalizes on the strengths of two established techniques: the classic two-model speculative decoding approach, and the more recent single-model approach, Medusa. Drawing inspiration from Medusa, our approach adopts a single-model strategy for speculative decoding. However, our method distinguishes itself by employing a single, lightweight draft head with a recurrent dependency design, akin in essence to the small, draft model uses in classic speculative decoding, but without the complexities of the full transformer architecture. And because of the recurrent dependency, we can use beam search to swiftly filter out undesired candidates with the draft head. The outcome is a method that combines the simplicity of single-model design and avoids the need to create a data-dependent tree attention structure only for inference in Medusa. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on several popular open source language models, along with a comprehensive analysis of the trade-offs involved in adopting this approach.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [294]
标题:  Attention-based Class-Conditioned Alignment for Multi-Source Domain  Adaptive Object Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09918
作者:  Atif Belal,  Akhil Meethal,  Francisco Perdigon Romero,  Marco Pedersoli,  Eric Granger
备注:  
Abstract:Domain adaptation methods for object detection (OD) strive to mitigate the impact of distribution shifts by promoting feature alignment across source and target domains. Multi-source domain adaptation (MSDA) allows leveraging multiple annotated source datasets, and unlabeled target data to improve the accuracy and robustness of the detection model. Most state-of-the-art MSDA methods for OD perform feature alignment in a class-agnostic manner. This is challenging since the objects have unique modal information due to variations in object appearance across domains. A recent prototype-based approach proposed a class-wise alignment, yet it suffers from error accumulation due to noisy pseudo-labels which can negatively affect adaptation with imbalanced data. To overcome these limitations, we propose an attention-based class-conditioned alignment scheme for MSDA that aligns instances of each object category across domains. In particular, an attention module coupled with an adversarial domain classifier allows learning domain-invariant and class-specific instance representations. Experimental results on multiple benchmarking MSDA datasets indicate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods and is robust to class imbalance. Our code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [295]
标题:  Robust Light-Weight Facial Affective Behavior Recognition with CLIP
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09915
作者:  Li Lin,  Sarah Papabathini,  Xin Wang,  Shu Hu
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2403.08947
Abstract:Human affective behavior analysis aims to delve into human expressions and behaviors to deepen our understanding of human emotions. Basic expression categories (EXPR) and Action Units (AUs) are two essential components in this analysis, which categorize emotions and break down facial movements into elemental units, respectively. Despite advancements, existing approaches in expression classification and AU detection often necessitate complex models and substantial computational resources, limiting their applicability in everyday settings. In this work, we introduce the first lightweight framework adept at efficiently tackling both expression classification and AU detection. This framework employs a frozen CLIP image encoder alongside a trainable multilayer perceptron (MLP), enhanced with Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR) for robustness and a loss landscape flattening strategy for improved generalization. Experimental results on the Aff-wild2 dataset demonstrate superior performance in comparison to the baseline while maintaining minimal computational demands, offering a practical solution for affective behavior analysis. The code is available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [296]
标题:  ProMark: Proactive Diffusion Watermarking for Causal Attribution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09914
作者:  Vishal Asnani,  John Collomosse,  Tu Bui,  Xiaoming Liu,  Shruti Agarwal
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:Generative AI (GenAI) is transforming creative workflows through the capability to synthesize and manipulate images via high-level prompts. Yet creatives are not well supported to receive recognition or reward for the use of their content in GenAI training. To this end, we propose ProMark, a causal attribution technique to attribute a synthetically generated image to its training data concepts like objects, motifs, templates, artists, or styles. The concept information is proactively embedded into the input training images using imperceptible watermarks, and the diffusion models (unconditional or conditional) are trained to retain the corresponding watermarks in generated images. We show that we can embed as many as $2^{16}$ unique watermarks into the training data, and each training image can contain more than one watermark. ProMark can maintain image quality whilst outperforming correlation-based attribution. Finally, several qualitative examples are presented, providing the confidence that the presence of the watermark conveys a causative relationship between training data and synthetic images.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [297]
标题:  Reality Bites: Assessing the Realism of Driving Scenarios with Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09906
作者:  Jiahui Wu,  Chengjie Lu,  Aitor Arrieta,  Tao Yue,  Shaukat Ali
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) are demonstrating outstanding potential for tasks such as text generation, summarization, and classification. Given that such models are trained on a humongous amount of online knowledge, we hypothesize that LLMs can assess whether driving scenarios generated by autonomous driving testing techniques are realistic, i.e., being aligned with real-world driving conditions. To test this hypothesis, we conducted an empirical evaluation to assess whether LLMs are effective and robust in performing the task. This reality check is an important step towards devising LLM-based autonomous driving testing techniques. For our empirical evaluation, we selected 64 realistic scenarios from \deepscenario--an open driving scenario dataset. Next, by introducing minor changes to them, we created 512 additional realistic scenarios, to form an overall dataset of 576 scenarios. With this dataset, we evaluated three LLMs (\gpt, \llama, and \mistral) to assess their robustness in assessing the realism of driving scenarios. Our results show that: (1) Overall, \gpt achieved the highest robustness compared to \llama and \mistral, consistently throughout almost all scenarios, roads, and weather conditions; (2) \mistral performed the worst consistently; (3) \llama achieved good results under certain conditions; and (4) roads and weather conditions do influence the robustness of the LLMs.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [298]
标题:  Right Place, Right Time! Towards ObjectNav for Non-Stationary Goals
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09905
作者:  Vishnu Sashank Dorbala,  Bhrij Patel,  Amrit Singh Bedi,  Dinesh Manocha
备注:  32
Abstract:We present a novel approach to tackle the ObjectNav task for non-stationary and potentially occluded targets in an indoor environment. We refer to this task Portable ObjectNav (or P-ObjectNav), and in this work, present its formulation, feasibility, and a navigation benchmark using a novel memory-enhanced LLM-based policy. In contrast to ObjNav where target object locations are fixed for each episode, P-ObjectNav tackles the challenging case where the target objects move during the episode. This adds a layer of time-sensitivity to navigation, and is particularly relevant in scenarios where the agent needs to find portable targets (e.g. misplaced wallets) in human-centric environments. The agent needs to estimate not just the correct location of the target, but also the time at which the target is at that location for visual grounding -- raising the question about the feasibility of the task. We address this concern by inferring results on two cases for object placement: one where the objects placed follow a routine or a path, and the other where they are placed at random. We dynamize Matterport3D for these experiments, and modify PPO and LLM-based navigation policies for evaluation. Using PPO, we observe that agent performance in the random case stagnates, while the agent in the routine-following environment continues to improve, allowing us to infer that P-ObjectNav is solvable in environments with routine-following object placement. Using memory-enhancement on an LLM-based policy, we set a benchmark for P-ObjectNav. Our memory-enhanced agent significantly outperforms their non-memory-based counterparts across object placement scenarios by 71.76% and 74.68% on average when measured by Success Rate (SR) and Success Rate weighted by Path Length (SRPL), showing the influence of memory on improving P-ObjectNav performance. Our code and dataset will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [299]
标题:  FedComLoc: Communication-Efficient Distributed Training of Sparse and  Quantized Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09904
作者:  Kai Yi,  Georg Meinhardt,  Laurent Condat,  Peter Richtárik
备注:  
Abstract:Federated Learning (FL) has garnered increasing attention due to its unique characteristic of allowing heterogeneous clients to process their private data locally and interact with a central server, while being respectful of privacy. A critical bottleneck in FL is the communication cost. A pivotal strategy to mitigate this burden is \emph{Local Training}, which involves running multiple local stochastic gradient descent iterations between communication phases. Our work is inspired by the innovative \emph{Scaffnew} algorithm, which has considerably advanced the reduction of communication complexity in FL. We introduce FedComLoc (Federated Compressed and Local Training), integrating practical and effective compression into \emph{Scaffnew} to further enhance communication efficiency. Extensive experiments, using the popular TopK compressor and quantization, demonstrate its prowess in substantially reducing communication overheads in heterogeneous settings.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [300]
标题:  Wildfire Resilient Unit Commitment under Uncertain Demand
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09903
作者:  Ryan Greenough,  Kohei Murakami,  Michael Davidson,  Jan Kleissl,  Adil Khurram
备注:  10 pages, 7 figures, 5 tables
Abstract:Public safety power shutoffs (PSPS) are a common pre-emptive measure to reduce wildfire risk due to power system equipment. System operators use PSPS to de-energize electric grid elements that are either prone to failure or located in regions at a high risk of experiencing a wildfire. Successful power system operation during PSPS involves coordination across different time scales. Adjustments to generator commitments and transmission line de-energizations occur at day-ahead intervals while adjustments to load servicing occur at hourly intervals. Generator commitments and operational decisions have to be made under uncertainty in electric grid demand and wildfire potential forecasts. This paper presents deterministic and two-stage mean-CVaR stochastic frameworks to show how the likelihood of large wildfires near transmission lines affects generator commitment and transmission line de-energization strategies. The optimal costs of commitment, operation, and lost load on the IEEE 14-bus test system are compared to the costs generated from prior optimal power shut-off (OPS) formulations. The proposed mean-CVaR stochastic program generates less total expected costs evaluated with respect to higher demand scenarios than costs generated by risk-neutral and deterministic methods.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [301]
标题:  Robust Subgraph Learning by Monitoring Early Training Representations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09901
作者:  Sepideh Neshatfar,  Salimeh Yasaei Sekeh
备注:  
Abstract:Graph neural networks (GNNs) have attracted significant attention for their outstanding performance in graph learning and node classification tasks. However, their vulnerability to adversarial attacks, particularly through susceptible nodes, poses a challenge in decision-making. The need for robust graph summarization is evident in adversarial challenges resulting from the propagation of attacks throughout the entire graph. In this paper, we address both performance and adversarial robustness in graph input by introducing the novel technique SHERD (Subgraph Learning Hale through Early Training Representation Distances). SHERD leverages information from layers of a partially trained graph convolutional network (GCN) to detect susceptible nodes during adversarial attacks using standard distance metrics. The method identifies "vulnerable (bad)" nodes and removes such nodes to form a robust subgraph while maintaining node classification performance. Through our experiments, we demonstrate the increased performance of SHERD in enhancing robustness by comparing the network's performance on original and subgraph inputs against various baselines alongside existing adversarial attacks. Our experiments across multiple datasets, including citation datasets such as Cora, Citeseer, and Pubmed, as well as microanatomical tissue structures of cell graphs in the placenta, highlight that SHERD not only achieves substantial improvement in robust performance but also outperforms several baselines in terms of node classification accuracy and computational complexity.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [302]
标题:  DTG : Diffusion-based Trajectory Generation for Mapless Global  Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09900
作者:  Jing Liang,  Amirreza Payandeh,  Daeun Song,  Xuesu Xiao,  Dinesh Manocha
备注:  10 pages
Abstract:We present a novel end-to-end diffusion-based trajectory generation method, DTG, for mapless global navigation in challenging outdoor scenarios with occlusions and unstructured off-road features like grass, buildings, bushes, etc. Given a distant goal, our approach computes a trajectory that satisfies the following goals: (1) minimize the travel distance to the goal; (2) maximize the traversability by choosing paths that do not lie in undesirable areas. Specifically, we present a novel Conditional RNN(CRNN) for diffusion models to efficiently generate trajectories. Furthermore, we propose an adaptive training method that ensures that the diffusion model generates more traversable trajectories. We evaluate our methods in various outdoor scenes and compare the performance with other global navigation algorithms on a Husky robot. In practice, we observe at least a 15% improvement in traveling distance and around a 7% improvement in traversability.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [303]
标题:  TimeMachine: A Time Series is Worth 4 Mambas for Long-term Forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09898
作者:  Md Atik Ahamed,  Qiang Cheng
备注:  
Abstract:Long-term time-series forecasting remains challenging due to the difficulty in capturing long-term dependencies, achieving linear scalability, and maintaining computational efficiency. We introduce TimeMachine, an innovative model that leverages Mamba, a state-space model, to capture long-term dependencies in multivariate time series data while maintaining linear scalability and small memory footprints. TimeMachine exploits the unique properties of time series data to produce salient contextual cues at multi-scales and leverage an innovative integrated quadruple-Mamba architecture to unify the handling of channel-mixing and channel-independence situations, thus enabling effective selection of contents for prediction against global and local contexts at different scales. Experimentally, TimeMachine achieves superior performance in prediction accuracy, scalability, and memory efficiency, as extensively validated using benchmark datasets. Code availability: this https URL
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [304]
标题:  Overcoming the cohesive zone limit in the modelling of composites  delamination with TUBA cohesive elements
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09895
作者:  Giorgio Tosti Balducci,  Boyang Chen
备注:  
Abstract:The wide adoption of composite structures in the aerospace industry requires reliable numerical methods to account for the effects of various damage mechanisms, including delamination. Cohesive elements are a versatile and physically representative way of modelling delamination. However, using their standard form which conforms to solid substrate elements, multiple elements are required in the narrow cohesive zone, thereby requiring an excessively fine mesh and hindering the applicability in practical scenarios. The present work focuses on the implementation and testing of triangular thin plate substrate elements and compatible cohesive elements, which satisfy C1-continuity in the domain. The improved regularity meets the continuity requirement coming from the Kirchhoff Plate Theory and the triangular shape allows for conformity to complex geometries. The overall model is validated for mode I delamination, the case with the smallest cohesive zone. Very accurate predictions of the limit load and crack propagation phase are achieved, using elements as large as 11 times the cohesive zone.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [305]
标题:  BAT-LZ Out of Hell
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09893
作者:  Zsuzsanna Lipták,  Francesco Masillo,  Gonzalo Navarro
备注:  Submitted to CPM
Abstract:Despite consistently yielding the best compression on repetitive text collections, the Lempel-Ziv parsing has resisted all attempts at offering relevant guarantees on the cost to access an arbitrary symbol. This makes it less attractive for use on compressed self-indexes and other compressed data structures. In this paper we introduce a variant we call BAT-LZ (for Bounded Access Time Lempel-Ziv) where the access cost is bounded by a parameter given at compression time. We design and implement a linear-space algorithm that, in time $O(n\log^3 n)$, obtains a BAT-LZ parse of a text of length $n$ by greedily maximizing each next phrase length. The algorithm builds on a new linear-space data structure that solves 5-sided orthogonal range queries in rank space, allowing updates to the coordinate where the one-sided queries are supported, in $O(\log^3 n)$ time for both queries and updates. This time can be reduced to $O(\log^2 n)$ if $O(n\log n)$ space is used. We design a second algorithm that chooses the sources for the phrases in a clever way, using an enhanced suffix tree, albeit no longer guaranteeing longest possible phrases. This algorithm is much slower in theory, but in practice it is comparable to the greedy parser, while achieving significantly superior compression. We then combine the two algorithms, resulting in a parser that always chooses the longest possible phrases, and the best sources for those. Our experimentation shows that, on most repetitive texts, our algorithms reach an access cost close to $\log_2 n$ on texts of length $n$, while incurring almost no loss in the compression ratio when compared with classical LZ-compression. Several open challenges are discussed at the end of the paper.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [306]
标题:  Geographically-Informed Language Identification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09892
作者:  Jonathan Dunn,  Lane Edwards-Brown
备注:  
Abstract:This paper develops an approach to language identification in which the set of languages considered by the model depends on the geographic origin of the text in question. Given that many digital corpora can be geo-referenced at the country level, this paper formulates 16 region-specific models, each of which contains the languages expected to appear in countries within that region. These regional models also each include 31 widely-spoken international languages in order to ensure coverage of these linguae francae regardless of location. An upstream evaluation using traditional language identification testing data shows an improvement in f-score ranging from 1.7 points (Southeast Asia) to as much as 10.4 points (North Africa). A downstream evaluation on social media data shows that this improved performance has a significant impact on the language labels which are applied to large real-world corpora. The result is a highly-accurate model that covers 916 languages at a sample size of 50 characters, the performance improved by incorporating geographic information into the model.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [307]
标题:  Fisher Mask Nodes for Language Model Merging
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09891
作者:  Thennal D K,  Ganesh Nathan,  Suchithra M S
备注:  Accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Fine-tuning pre-trained models provides significant advantages in downstream performance. The ubiquitous nature of pre-trained models such as BERT and its derivatives in natural language processing has also led to a proliferation of task-specific fine-tuned models. As these models typically only perform one task well, additional training or ensembling is required in multi-task scenarios. The growing field of model merging provides a solution, dealing with the challenge of combining multiple task-specific models into a single multi-task model. In this study, we introduce a novel model merging method for Transformers, combining insights from previous work in Fisher-weighted averaging and the use of Fisher information in model pruning. Utilizing the Fisher information of mask nodes within the Transformer architecture, we devise a computationally efficient weighted-averaging scheme. Our method exhibits a regular and significant performance increase across various models in the BERT family, outperforming full-scale Fisher-weighted averaging in a fraction of the computational cost, with baseline performance improvements of up to +6.5 and a speedup of 57.4x. Our results prove the potential of our method in current multi-task learning environments and suggest its scalability and adaptability to new model architectures and learning scenarios.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [308]
标题:  Generalization of Scaled Deep ResNets in the Mean-Field Regime
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09889
作者:  Yihang Chen,  Fanghui Liu,  Yiping Lu,  Grigorios G. Chrysos,  Volkan Cevher
备注:  ICLR 2024 (Spotlight)
Abstract:Despite the widespread empirical success of ResNet, the generalization properties of deep ResNet are rarely explored beyond the lazy training regime. In this work, we investigate \emph{scaled} ResNet in the limit of infinitely deep and wide neural networks, of which the gradient flow is described by a partial differential equation in the large-neural network limit, i.e., the \emph{mean-field} regime. To derive the generalization bounds under this setting, our analysis necessitates a shift from the conventional time-invariant Gram matrix employed in the lazy training regime to a time-variant, distribution-dependent version. To this end, we provide a global lower bound on the minimum eigenvalue of the Gram matrix under the mean-field regime. Besides, for the traceability of the dynamic of Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence, we establish the linear convergence of the empirical error and estimate the upper bound of the KL divergence over parameters distribution. Finally, we build the uniform convergence for generalization bound via Rademacher complexity. Our results offer new insights into the generalization ability of deep ResNet beyond the lazy training regime and contribute to advancing the understanding of the fundamental properties of deep neural networks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [309]
标题:  Sabiá-2: A New Generation of Portuguese Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09887
作者:  Thales Sales Almeida,  Hugo Abonizio,  Rodrigo Nogueira,  Ramon Pires
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce Sabiá-2, a family of large language models trained on Portuguese texts. The models are evaluated on a diverse range of exams, including entry-level tests for Brazilian universities, professional certification exams, and graduate-level exams for various disciplines such as accounting, economics, engineering, law and medicine. Our results reveal that our best model so far, Sabiá-2 Medium, matches or surpasses GPT-4's performance in 23 out of 64 exams and outperforms GPT-3.5 in 58 out of 64 exams. Notably, specialization has a significant impact on a model's performance without the need to increase its size, allowing us to offer Sabiá-2 Medium at a price per token that is 10 times cheaper than GPT-4. Finally, we identified that math and coding are key abilities that need improvement.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [310]
标题:  GazeMotion: Gaze-guided Human Motion Forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09885
作者:  Zhiming Hu,  Syn Schmitt,  Daniel Haeufle,  Andreas Bulling
备注:  
Abstract:We present GazeMotion, a novel method for human motion forecasting that combines information on past human poses with human eye gaze. Inspired by evidence from behavioural sciences showing that human eye and body movements are closely coordinated, GazeMotion first predicts future eye gaze from past gaze, then fuses predicted future gaze and past poses into a gaze-pose graph, and finally uses a residual graph convolutional network to forecast body motion. We extensively evaluate our method on the MoGaze, ADT, and GIMO benchmark datasets and show that it outperforms state-of-the-art methods by up to 7.4% improvement in mean per joint position error. Using head direction as a proxy to gaze, our method still achieves an average improvement of 5.5%. We finally report an online user study showing that our method also outperforms prior methods in terms of perceived realism. These results show the significant information content available in eye gaze for human motion forecasting as well as the effectiveness of our method in exploiting this information.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [311]
标题:  Influence of Personality and Communication Behavior of a Conversational  Agent on User Experience and Social Presence in Augmented Reality
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09883
作者:  Katerina Koleva,  Maurizio Vergari,  Tanja Kojić,  Sebastian Möller,  Jan-Niklas Voigt-Antons
备注:  
Abstract:A virtual embodiment can benefit conversational agents, but it is unclear how their personalities and non-verbal behavior influence the User Experience and Social Presence in Augmented Reality (AR). We asked 30 users to converse with a virtual assistant who gives recommendations about city activities. The participants interacted with two different personalities: Sammy, a cheerful blue mouse, and Olive, a serious green human-like agent. Each was presented with two body languages - happy/friendly and annoyed/unfriendly. We conclude how agent representation and humor affect User Experience aspects, and that body language is significant in the evaluation and perception of the AR agent.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [312]
标题:  Visual Inertial Odometry using Focal Plane Binary Features (BIT-VIO)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09882
作者:  Matthew Lisondra,  Junseo Kim,  Riku Murai,  Kourosh Zareinia,  Sajad Saeedi
备注:  Accepted for Presentation Yokohama, Japan for IEEE 2024 ICRA
Abstract:Focal-Plane Sensor-Processor Arrays (FPSP)s are an emerging technology that can execute vision algorithms directly on the image sensor. Unlike conventional cameras, FPSPs perform computation on the image plane -- at individual pixels -- enabling high frame rate image processing while consuming low power, making them ideal for mobile robotics. FPSPs, such as the SCAMP-5, use parallel processing and are based on the Single Instruction Multiple Data (SIMD) paradigm. In this paper, we present BIT-VIO, the first Visual Inertial Odometry (VIO) which utilises SCAMP-5.BIT-VIO is a loosely-coupled iterated Extended Kalman Filter (iEKF) which fuses together the visual odometry running fast at 300 FPS with predictions from 400 Hz IMU measurements to provide accurate and smooth trajectories.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [313]
标题:  How To Save Fees in Bitcoin Smart Contracts: a Simple Optimistic  Off-chain Protocol
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09880
作者:  Dario Maddaloni,  Riccardo Marchesin,  Roberto Zunino
备注:  
Abstract:We consider the execution of smart contracts on Bitcoin. There, every contract step corresponds to appending to the blockchain a new transaction that spends the output representing the old contract state, creating a new one for the updated state. This standard procedure requires the contract participants to pay transaction fees for every execution step. In this paper, we introduce a protocol that moves most of the execution of a Bitcoin contract off-chain. When all participants follow this protocol, they are able to save on transaction fees. By contrast, in the presence of adversaries, any honest participant is still able to enforce the correct execution of the contract, according to its original semantics.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [314]
标题:  The Influence of Extended Reality and Virtual Characters' Embodiment  Levels on User Experience in Well-Being Activities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09879
作者:  Tanja Kojić,  Maurizio Vergari,  Marco Podratz,  Sebastian Möller,  Jan-Niklas Voigt-Antons
备注:  
Abstract:Millions of people have seen their daily habits transform, reducing physical activity and leading to mental health issues. This study explores how virtual characters impact motivation for well-being. Three prototypes with cartoon, robotic, and human-like avatars were tested by 22 participants. Results show that animated virtual avatars, especially with extended reality, boost motivation, enhance comprehension of activities, and heighten presence. Multiple output modalities, like audio and text, with character animations, improve the user experience. Notably, the cartoon-like character evoked positive responses. This research highlights virtual characters' potential to engage individuals in daily well-being activities.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [315]
标题:  Touch-GS: Visual-Tactile Supervised 3D Gaussian Splatting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09875
作者:  Aiden Swann,  Matthew Strong,  Won Kyung Do,  Gadiel Sznaier Camps,  Mac Schwager,  Monroe Kennedy III
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we propose a novel method to supervise 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) scenes using optical tactile sensors. Optical tactile sensors have become widespread in their use in robotics for manipulation and object representation; however, raw optical tactile sensor data is unsuitable to directly supervise a 3DGS scene. Our representation leverages a Gaussian Process Implicit Surface to implicitly represent the object, combining many touches into a unified representation with uncertainty. We merge this model with a monocular depth estimation network, which is aligned in a two stage process, coarsely aligning with a depth camera and then finely adjusting to match our touch data. For every training image, our method produces a corresponding fused depth and uncertainty map. Utilizing this additional information, we propose a new loss function, variance weighted depth supervised loss, for training the 3DGS scene model. We leverage the DenseTact optical tactile sensor and RealSense RGB-D camera to show that combining touch and vision in this manner leads to quantitatively and qualitatively better results than vision or touch alone in a few-view scene syntheses on opaque as well as on reflective and transparent objects. Please see our project page at this http URL
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [316]
标题:  Finite element approximation for a convective Brinkman--Forchheimer  problem coupled with a heat equation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09872
作者:  Gilberto Campaña,  Pablo Muñoz,  Enrique Otarola
备注:  
Abstract:We investigate a convective Brinkman--Forchheimer problem coupled with a heat transfer equation. The investigated model considers thermal diffusion and viscosity depending on the temperature. We prove the existence of a solution without restriction on the data and uniqueness when the solution is slightly smoother and the data is suitably restricted. We propose a finite element discretization scheme for the considered model and derive convergence results and a priori error estimates. Finally, we illustrate the theory with numerical examples.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [317]
标题:  ThermoHands: A Benchmark for 3D Hand Pose Estimation from Egocentric  Thermal Image
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09871
作者:  Fangqiang Ding,  Yunzhou Zhu,  Xiangyu Wen,  Chris Xiaoxuan Lu
备注:  20 pages, 6 pages, 5 tables
Abstract:In this work, we present ThermoHands, a new benchmark for thermal image-based egocentric 3D hand pose estimation, aimed at overcoming challenges like varying lighting and obstructions (e.g., handwear). The benchmark includes a diverse dataset from 28 subjects performing hand-object and hand-virtual interactions, accurately annotated with 3D hand poses through an automated process. We introduce a bespoken baseline method, TheFormer, utilizing dual transformer modules for effective egocentric 3D hand pose estimation in thermal imagery. Our experimental results highlight TheFormer's leading performance and affirm thermal imaging's effectiveness in enabling robust 3D hand pose estimation in adverse conditions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [318]
标题:  iBRF: Improved Balanced Random Forest Classifier
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09867
作者:  Asif Newaz,  Md. Salman Mohosheu,  MD. Abdullah al Noman,  Dr. Taskeed Jabid
备注:  
Abstract:Class imbalance poses a major challenge in different classification tasks, which is a frequently occurring scenario in many real-world applications. Data resampling is considered to be the standard approach to address this issue. The goal of the technique is to balance the class distribution by generating new samples or eliminating samples from the data. A wide variety of sampling techniques have been proposed over the years to tackle this challenging problem. Sampling techniques can also be incorporated into the ensemble learning framework to obtain more generalized prediction performance. Balanced Random Forest (BRF) and SMOTE-Bagging are some of the popular ensemble approaches. In this study, we propose a modification to the BRF classifier to enhance the prediction performance. In the original algorithm, the Random Undersampling (RUS) technique was utilized to balance the bootstrap samples. However, randomly eliminating too many samples from the data leads to significant data loss, resulting in a major decline in performance. We propose to alleviate the scenario by incorporating a novel hybrid sampling approach to balance the uneven class distribution in each bootstrap sub-sample. Our proposed hybrid sampling technique, when incorporated into the framework of the Random Forest classifier, termed as iBRF: improved Balanced Random Forest classifier, achieves better prediction performance than other sampling techniques used in imbalanced classification tasks. Experiments were carried out on 44 imbalanced datasets on which the original BRF classifier produced an average MCC score of 47.03% and an F1 score of 49.09%. Our proposed algorithm outperformed the approach by producing a far better MCC score of 53.04% and an F1 score of 55%. The results obtained signify the superiority of the iBRF algorithm and its potential to be an effective sampling technique in imbalanced learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [319]
标题:  Safety-Critical Control for Autonomous Systems: Control Barrier  Functions via Reduced-Order Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09865
作者:  Max H. Cohen,  Tamas G. Molnar,  Aaron D. Ames
备注:  To appear in Annual Reviews in Control
Abstract:Modern autonomous systems, such as flying, legged, and wheeled robots, are generally characterized by high-dimensional nonlinear dynamics, which presents challenges for model-based safety-critical control design. Motivated by the success of reduced-order models in robotics, this paper presents a tutorial on constructive safety-critical control via reduced-order models and control barrier functions (CBFs). To this end, we provide a unified formulation of techniques in the literature that share a common foundation of constructing CBFs for complex systems from CBFs for much simpler systems. Such ideas are illustrated through formal results, simple numerical examples, and case studies of real-world systems to which these techniques have been experimentally applied.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [320]
标题:  A Conceptual Framework For White Box Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09863
作者:  Maciej Satkiewicz
备注:  11 pages, 7 figures, independent research
Abstract:This paper introduces semantic features as a general conceptual framework for fully explainable neural network layers. A well-motivated proof of concept model for relevant subproblem of MNIST consists of 4 such layers with the total of 4.8K learnable parameters. The model is easily interpretable, achieves human-level adversarial test accuracy with no form of adversarial training, requires little hyperparameter tuning and can be quickly trained on a single CPU. The general nature of the technique bears promise for a paradigm shift towards radically democratised and truly generalizable white box neural networks. The code is available at this https URL
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [321]
标题:  NN-Defined Modulator: Reconfigurable and Portable Software Modulator on  IoT Gateways
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09861
作者:  Jiazhao Wang,  Wenchao Jiang,  Ruofeng Liu,  Bin Hu,  Demin Gao,  Shuai Wang
备注:  
Abstract:A physical-layer modulator is a vital component for an IoT gateway to map the symbols to signals. However, due to the soldered hardware chipsets on the gateway's motherboards or the diverse toolkits on different platforms for the software radio, the existing solutions either have limited extensibility or are platform-specific. Such limitation is hard to ignore when modulation schemes and hardware platforms have become extremely diverse. This paper presents a new paradigm of using neural networks as an abstraction layer for physical layer modulators in IoT gateway devices, referred to as NN-defined modulators. Our approach addresses the challenges of extensibility and portability for multiple technologies on various hardware platforms. The proposed NN-defined modulator uses a model-driven methodology rooted in solid mathematical foundations while having native support for hardware acceleration and portability to heterogeneous platforms. We conduct the evaluation of NN-defined modulators on different platforms, including Nvidia Jetson Nano and Raspberry Pi. Evaluations demonstrate that our NN-defined modulator effectively operates as conventional modulators and provides significant efficiency gains (up to $4.7\times$ on Nvidia Jetson Nano and $1.1\times$ on Raspberry Pi), indicating high portability. Furthermore, we show the real-world applications using our NN-defined modulators to generate ZigBee and WiFi packets, which are compliant with commodity TI CC2650 (ZigBee) and Intel AX201 (WiFi NIC), respectively.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [322]
标题:  MAMBA: an Effective World Model Approach for Meta-Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09859
作者:  Zohar Rimon,  Tom Jurgenson,  Orr Krupnik,  Gilad Adler,  Aviv Tamar
备注:  
Abstract:Meta-reinforcement learning (meta-RL) is a promising framework for tackling challenging domains requiring efficient exploration. Existing meta-RL algorithms are characterized by low sample efficiency, and mostly focus on low-dimensional task distributions. In parallel, model-based RL methods have been successful in solving partially observable MDPs, of which meta-RL is a special case. In this work, we leverage this success and propose a new model-based approach to meta-RL, based on elements from existing state-of-the-art model-based and meta-RL methods. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on common meta-RL benchmark domains, attaining greater return with better sample efficiency (up to $15\times$) while requiring very little hyperparameter tuning. In addition, we validate our approach on a slate of more challenging, higher-dimensional domains, taking a step towards real-world generalizing agents.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [323]
标题:  FakeWatch: A Framework for Detecting Fake News to Ensure Credible  Elections
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09858
作者:  Shaina Raza,  Tahniat Khan,  Drai Paulen-Patterson,  Veronica Chatrath,  Mizanur Rahman,  Oluwanifemi Bamgbose
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2312.03730
Abstract:In today's technologically driven world, the rapid spread of fake news, particularly during critical events like elections, poses a growing threat to the integrity of information. To tackle this challenge head-on, we introduce FakeWatch, a comprehensive framework carefully designed to detect fake news. Leveraging a newly curated dataset of North American election-related news articles, we construct robust classification models. Our framework integrates a model hub comprising of both traditional machine learning (ML) techniques and cutting-edge Language Models (LMs) to discern fake news effectively. Our overarching objective is to provide the research community with adaptable and precise classification models adept at identifying the ever-evolving landscape of misinformation. Quantitative evaluations of fake news classifiers on our dataset reveal that, while state-of-the-art LMs exhibit a slight edge over traditional ML models, classical models remain competitive due to their balance of accuracy and computational efficiency. Additionally, qualitative analyses shed light on patterns within fake news articles. This research lays the groundwork for future endeavors aimed at combating misinformation, particularly concerning electoral processes. We provide our labeled data and model publicly for use and reproducibility.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [324]
标题:  Few-Shot Class Incremental Learning with Attention-Aware Self-Adaptive  Prompt
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09857
作者:  Chenxi Liu,  Zhenyi Wang,  Tianyi Xiong,  Ruibo Chen,  Yihan Wu,  Junfeng Guo,  Heng Huang
备注:  
Abstract:Few-Shot Class-Incremental Learning (FSCIL) models aim to incrementally learn new classes with scarce samples while preserving knowledge of old ones. Existing FSCIL methods usually fine-tune the entire backbone, leading to overfitting and hindering the potential to learn new classes. On the other hand, recent prompt-based CIL approaches alleviate forgetting by training prompts with sufficient data in each task. In this work, we propose a novel framework named Attention-aware Self-adaptive Prompt (ASP). ASP encourages task-invariant prompts to capture shared knowledge by reducing specific information from the attention aspect. Additionally, self-adaptive task-specific prompts in ASP provide specific information and transfer knowledge from old classes to new classes with an Information Bottleneck learning objective. In summary, ASP prevents overfitting on base task and does not require enormous data in few-shot incremental tasks. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets validate that ASP consistently outperforms state-of-the-art FSCIL and prompt-based CIL methods in terms of both learning new classes and mitigating forgetting.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [325]
标题:  A Tale of Two Communities: Exploring Academic References on Stack  Overflow
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09856
作者:  Run Huang,  Souti Chattopadhyay
备注:  Accepted for publication in The Web Conference (WWW) 2024, Short Paper Track
Abstract:Stack Overflow is widely recognized by software practitioners as the go-to resource for addressing technical issues and sharing practical solutions. While it is not typically seen as a forum for scholarly discourse, users on Stack Overflow often refer to academic sources in their discussions. Yet, little is known about these referenced works from the academic community and how they intersect the needs and interests of the Stack Overflow community. To bridge this gap, we conducted a large-scale study on academic references in Stack Overflow. Our findings reveal that Stack Overflow communities with different domains of interest engage with academic literature at varying frequencies and speeds. The contradicting patterns suggest that some disciplines may have diverged in their interests and development trajectories from the corresponding practitioner community. Finally, we discuss the potential of Stack Overflow in gauging the real-world relevance of academic research.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [326]
标题:  Constrained Passive Interaction Control: Leveraging Passivity and Safety  for Robot Manipulators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09853
作者:  Zhiquan Zhang,  Tianyu Li,  Nadia Figueroa
备注:  
Abstract:Passivity is necessary for robots to fluidly collaborate and interact with humans physically. Nevertheless, due to the unconstrained nature of passivity-based impedance control laws, the robot is vulnerable to infeasible and unsafe configurations upon physical perturbations. In this paper, we propose a novel control architecture that allows a torque-controlled robot to guarantee safety constraints such as kinematic limits, self-collisions, external collisions and singularities and is passive only when feasible. This is achieved by constraining a dynamical system based impedance control law with a relaxed hierarchical control barrier function quadratic program subject to multiple concurrent, possibly contradicting, constraints. Joint space constraints are formulated from efficient data-driven self- and external C^2 collision boundary functions. We theoretically prove constraint satisfaction and show that the robot is passive when feasible. Our approach is validated in simulation and real robot experiments on a 7DoF Franka Research 3 manipulator.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [327]
标题:  MARVIS: Motion & Geometry Aware Real and Virtual Image Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09850
作者:  Jiayi Wu,  Xiaomin Lin,  Shahriar Negahdaripour,  Cornelia Fermüller,  Yiannis Aloimonos
备注:  
Abstract:Tasks such as autonomous navigation, 3D reconstruction, and object recognition near the water surfaces are crucial in marine robotics applications. However, challenges arise due to dynamic disturbances, e.g., light reflections and refraction from the random air-water interface, irregular liquid flow, and similar factors, which can lead to potential failures in perception and navigation systems. Traditional computer vision algorithms struggle to differentiate between real and virtual image regions, significantly complicating tasks. A virtual image region is an apparent representation formed by the redirection of light rays, typically through reflection or refraction, creating the illusion of an object's presence without its actual physical location. This work proposes a novel approach for segmentation on real and virtual image regions, exploiting synthetic images combined with domain-invariant information, a Motion Entropy Kernel, and Epipolar Geometric Consistency. Our segmentation network does not need to be re-trained if the domain changes. We show this by deploying the same segmentation network in two different domains: simulation and the real world. By creating realistic synthetic images that mimic the complexities of the water surface, we provide fine-grained training data for our network (MARVIS) to discern between real and virtual images effectively. By motion & geometry-aware design choices and through comprehensive experimental analysis, we achieve state-of-the-art real-virtual image segmentation performance in unseen real world domain, achieving an IoU over 78% and a F1-Score over 86% while ensuring a small computational footprint. MARVIS offers over 43 FPS (8 FPS) inference rates on a single GPU (CPU core). Our code and dataset are available here this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [328]
标题:  Self-Consistency Boosts Calibration for Math Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09849
作者:  Ante Wang,  Linfeng Song,  Ye Tian,  Baolin Peng,  Lifeng Jin,  Haitao Mi,  Jinsong Su,  Dong Yu
备注:  
Abstract:Calibration, which establishes the correlation between accuracy and model confidence, is important for LLM development. We design three off-the-shelf calibration methods based on self-consistency (Wang et al., 2022) for math reasoning tasks. Evaluation on two popular benchmarks (GSM8K and MathQA) using strong open-source LLMs (Mistral and LLaMA2), our methods better bridge model confidence and accuracy than existing methods based on p(True) (Kadavath et al., 2022) or logit (Kadavath et al., 2022).
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [329]
标题:  Gamified GUI testing with Selenium in the IntelliJ IDE: A Prototype  Plugin
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09842
作者:  Giacomo Garaccione,  Tommaso Fulcini,  Paolo Stefanut Bodnarescul,  Riccardo Coppola,  Luca Ardito
备注:  5 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Software testing is a crucial phase in software development, enabling the detection of issues and defects that may arise during the development process. Addressing these issues enhances software applications' quality, reliability, user experience, and performance. Graphical User Interface (GUI) testing, one such technique, involves mimicking a regular user's interactions with an application to identify defects. However, GUI testing is often underutilized due to its perceived repetitiveness, error-proneness, and lack of immediate feedback on test quality. In recent years, gamification-incorporating game elements in non-game contexts to boost interest, motivation, and engagement-has gained traction in various fields, including software engineering and education. This paper presents GIPGUT: a prototype of a gamification plugin for IntelliJ IDEA, an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) that supports scripted GUI testing. The plugin enhances testers' engagement with typically monotonous and tedious tasks through achievements, rewards, and profile customization. A preliminary prototype evaluation was conducted with a small group of users to assess its usability and the impact of gamification on the GUI testing process. The results indicate high usability and positive reception of the gamification elements. However, due to the limited sample size of participants, further research is necessary to understand the plugin's effectiveness fully.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [330]
标题:  MultiGripperGrasp: A Dataset for Robotic Grasping from Parallel Jaw  Grippers to Dexterous Hands
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09841
作者:  Luis Felipe Casas Murrilo,  Ninad Khargonkar,  Balakrishnan Prabhakaran,  Yu Xiang
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce a large-scale dataset named MultiGripperGrasp for robotic grasping. Our dataset contains 30.4M grasps from 11 grippers for 345 objects. These grippers range from two-finger grippers to five-finger grippers, including a human hand. All grasps in the dataset are verified in Isaac Sim to classify them as successful and unsuccessful grasps. Additionally, the object fall-off time for each grasp is recorded as a grasp quality measurement. Furthermore, the grippers in our dataset are aligned according to the orientation and position of their palms, allowing us to transfer grasps from one gripper to another. The grasp transfer significantly increases the number of successful grasps for each gripper in the dataset. Our dataset is useful to study generalized grasp planning and grasp transfer across different grippers.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [331]
标题:  Scaling Behavior of Machine Translation with Large Language Models under  Prompt Injection Attacks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09832
作者:  Zhifan Sun,  Antonio Valerio Miceli-Barone
备注:  15 pages, 18 figures, First Workshop on the Scaling Behavior of Large Language Models (SCALE-LLM 2024)
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly becoming the preferred foundation platforms for many Natural Language Processing tasks such as Machine Translation, owing to their quality often comparable to or better than task-specific models, and the simplicity of specifying the task through natural language instructions or in-context examples. Their generality, however, opens them up to subversion by end users who may embed into their requests instructions that cause the model to behave in unauthorized and possibly unsafe ways. In this work we study these Prompt Injection Attacks (PIAs) on multiple families of LLMs on a Machine Translation task, focusing on the effects of model size on the attack success rates. We introduce a new benchmark data set and we discover that on multiple language pairs and injected prompts written in English, larger models under certain conditions may become more susceptible to successful attacks, an instance of the Inverse Scaling phenomenon (McKenzie et al., 2023). To our knowledge, this is the first work to study non-trivial LLM scaling behaviour in a multi-lingual setting.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [332]
标题:  Towards the Reusability and Compositionality of Causal Representations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09830
作者:  Davide Talon,  Phillip Lippe,  Stuart James,  Alessio Del Bue,  Sara Magliacane
备注:  Accepted to the 3rd Conference on Causal Learning and Reasoning (CLeaR 2024)
Abstract:Causal Representation Learning (CRL) aims at identifying high-level causal factors and their relationships from high-dimensional observations, e.g., images. While most CRL works focus on learning causal representations in a single environment, in this work we instead propose a first step towards learning causal representations from temporal sequences of images that can be adapted in a new environment, or composed across multiple related environments. In particular, we introduce DECAF, a framework that detects which causal factors can be reused and which need to be adapted from previously learned causal representations. Our approach is based on the availability of intervention targets, that indicate which variables are perturbed at each time step. Experiments on three benchmark datasets show that integrating our framework with four state-of-the-art CRL approaches leads to accurate representations in a new environment with only a few samples.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [333]
标题:  An Admission Control Algorithm for Isochronous and Asynchronous Traffic  in IEEE 802.11ad MAC
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09819
作者:  Anirudha Sahoo
备注:  
Abstract:Due to availability of large amount of bandwidth in the 60 GHz band and support of contention-free channel access called Service Period (SP), the IEEE 802.11ad/ay Wi-Fi standard is well suited for low latency and high data rate applications. IEEE 802.11ad supports two types of SP user traffic: isochronous and asynchronous. These user traffic need guaranteed SP duration before their respective deadlines. Hence, admission control plays an important role in an IEEE 802.11ad system. In an earlier work, we studied admission control and scheduling of isochronous and asynchronous traffic in an IEEE 802.11ad system, but we assumed the asynchronous requests to be periodic to keep the algorithm simple. That assumption resulted in overallocation of resource and potential degradation of performance. In this paper, we present an admission control algorithm which does not make such assumption and yet still maintains a linear run time complexity and allocates resources to the requests in a proportional fair manner. We provide arguments to establish correctness of the algorithm in terms of guaranteeing SP allocation to the requests before their respective deadlines.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [334]
标题:  Impact of Objective Function on Spectral Efficiency in Integrated  HAPS-Terrestrial Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09817
作者:  Afsoon Alidadi Shamsabadi,  Animesh Yadav,  Halim Yanikomeroglu
备注:  9 pages single column
Abstract:Integrating non-terrestrial networks (NTNs), in particular high altitude platform stations (HAPS), with terrestrial networks, referred to as vHetNets, emerges as a promising future wireless network architecture for providing ubiquitous connectivity. In this context, optimizing the performance of vHetNets has become a paramount concern, particularly in harmonized spectrum vHetNets, where HAPS and terrestrial networks share the same frequency band, resulting in severe inter-/intra-tier interference. This paper provides a comparative analysis of different objective functions, specifically focusing on weighted sum rate (WSR), network-wide proportional fairness (NW-PF), and network-wide max-min fairness (NW-MMF), with an aim to design a joint user association scheme and multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) beamforming weights in a vHetNet, operating in an urban area. The simulation results comprehensively compare the behavior of different objective functions in vHetNets and standalone terrestrial networks. This analysis aims to shed light on the impact of diverse objective functions on the achievable spectral efficiency (SE) of vHetNets.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [335]
标题:  Towards Comprehensive Multimodal Perception: Introducing the  Touch-Language-Vision Dataset
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09813
作者:  Ning Cheng,  You Li,  Jing Gao,  Bin Fang,  Jinan Xu,  Wenjuan Han
备注:  
Abstract:Tactility provides crucial support and enhancement for the perception and interaction capabilities of both humans and robots. Nevertheless, the multimodal research related to touch primarily focuses on visual and tactile modalities, with limited exploration in the domain of language. Beyond vocabulary, sentence-level descriptions contain richer semantics. Based on this, we construct a touch-language-vision dataset named TLV (Touch-Language-Vision) by human-machine cascade collaboration, featuring sentence-level descriptions for multimode alignment. The new dataset is used to fine-tune our proposed lightweight training framework, TLV-Link (Linking Touch, Language, and Vision through Alignment), achieving effective semantic alignment with minimal parameter adjustments (1%). Project Page: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [336]
标题:  LabelAId: Just-in-time AI Interventions for Improving Human Labeling  Quality and Domain Knowledge in Crowdsourcing Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09810
作者:  Chu Li,  Zhihan Zhang,  Michael Saugstad,  Esteban Safranchik,  Minchu Kulkarni,  Xiaoyu Huang,  Shwetak Patel,  Vikram Iyer,  Tim Althoff,  Jon E. Froehlich
备注:  
Abstract:Crowdsourcing platforms have transformed distributed problem-solving, yet quality control remains a persistent challenge. Traditional quality control measures, such as prescreening workers and refining instructions, often focus solely on optimizing economic output. This paper explores just-in-time AI interventions to enhance both labeling quality and domain-specific knowledge among crowdworkers. We introduce LabelAId, an advanced inference model combining Programmatic Weak Supervision (PWS) with FT-Transformers to infer label correctness based on user behavior and domain knowledge. Our technical evaluation shows that our LabelAId pipeline consistently outperforms state-of-the-art ML baselines, improving mistake inference accuracy by 36.7% with 50 downstream samples. We then implemented LabelAId into Project Sidewalk, an open-source crowdsourcing platform for urban accessibility. A between-subjects study with 34 participants demonstrates that LabelAId significantly enhances label precision without compromising efficiency while also increasing labeler confidence. We discuss LabelAId's success factors, limitations, and its generalizability to other crowdsourced science domains.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [337]
标题:  Self-Supervised Learning for Time Series: Contrastive or Generative?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09809
作者:  Ziyu Liu,  Azadeh Alavi,  Minyi Li,  Xiang Zhang
备注:  Published at the AI4TS Workshop, IJCAI 2023
Abstract:Self-supervised learning (SSL) has recently emerged as a powerful approach to learning representations from large-scale unlabeled data, showing promising results in time series analysis. The self-supervised representation learning can be categorized into two mainstream: contrastive and generative. In this paper, we will present a comprehensive comparative study between contrastive and generative methods in time series. We first introduce the basic frameworks for contrastive and generative SSL, respectively, and discuss how to obtain the supervision signal that guides the model optimization. We then implement classical algorithms (SimCLR vs. MAE) for each type and conduct a comparative analysis in fair settings. Our results provide insights into the strengths and weaknesses of each approach and offer practical recommendations for choosing suitable SSL methods. We also discuss the implications of our findings for the broader field of representation learning and propose future research directions. All the code and data are released at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [338]
标题:  xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09806
作者:  Balaji Ganesan,  Matheen Ahmed Pasha,  Srinivasa Parkala,  Neeraj R Singh,  Gayatri Mishra,  Sumit Bhatia,  Hima Patel,  Somashekar Naganna,  Sameep Mehta
备注:  8 pages, 4 figures, NeurIPS 2020 Competition and Demonstration Track. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2012.05516
Abstract:Explaining neural model predictions to users requires creativity. Especially in enterprise applications, where there are costs associated with users' time, and their trust in the model predictions is critical for adoption. For link prediction in master data management, we have built a number of explainability solutions drawing from research in interpretability, fact verification, path ranking, neuro-symbolic reasoning and self-explaining AI. In this demo, we present explanations for link prediction in a creative way, to allow users to choose explanations they are more comfortable with.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [339]
标题:  On the Utility of 3D Hand Poses for Action Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09805
作者:  Md Salman Shamil,  Dibyadip Chatterjee,  Fadime Sener,  Shugao Ma,  Angela Yao
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:3D hand poses are an under-explored modality for action recognition. Poses are compact yet informative and can greatly benefit applications with limited compute budgets. However, poses alone offer an incomplete understanding of actions, as they cannot fully capture objects and environments with which humans interact. To efficiently model hand-object interactions, we propose HandFormer, a novel multimodal transformer. HandFormer combines 3D hand poses at a high temporal resolution for fine-grained motion modeling with sparsely sampled RGB frames for encoding scene semantics. Observing the unique characteristics of hand poses, we temporally factorize hand modeling and represent each joint by its short-term trajectories. This factorized pose representation combined with sparse RGB samples is remarkably efficient and achieves high accuracy. Unimodal HandFormer with only hand poses outperforms existing skeleton-based methods at 5x fewer FLOPs. With RGB, we achieve new state-of-the-art performance on Assembly101 and H2O with significant improvements in egocentric action recognition.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [340]
标题:  BOP Challenge 2023 on Detection, Segmentation and Pose Estimation of  Seen and Unseen Rigid Objects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09799
作者:  Tomas Hodan,  Martin Sundermeyer,  Yann Labbe,  Van Nguyen Nguyen,  Gu Wang,  Eric Brachmann,  Bertram Drost,  Vincent Lepetit,  Carsten Rother,  Jiri Matas
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2302.13075
Abstract:We present the evaluation methodology, datasets and results of the BOP Challenge 2023, the fifth in a series of public competitions organized to capture the state of the art in model-based 6D object pose estimation from an RGB/RGB-D image and related tasks. Besides the three tasks from 2022 (model-based 2D detection, 2D segmentation, and 6D localization of objects seen during training), the 2023 challenge introduced new variants of these tasks focused on objects unseen during training. In the new tasks, methods were required to learn new objects during a short onboarding stage (max 5 minutes, 1 GPU) from provided 3D object models. The best 2023 method for 6D localization of unseen objects (GenFlow) notably reached the accuracy of the best 2020 method for seen objects (CosyPose), although being noticeably slower. The best 2023 method for seen objects (GPose) achieved a moderate accuracy improvement but a significant 43% run-time improvement compared to the best 2022 counterpart (GDRNPP). Since 2017, the accuracy of 6D localization of seen objects has improved by more than 50% (from 56.9 to 85.6 AR_C). The online evaluation system stays open and is available at: this http URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [341]
标题:  Comparing Rationality Between Large Language Models and Humans: Insights  and Open Questions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09798
作者:  Dana Alsagheer,  Rabimba Karanjai,  Nour Diallo,  Weidong Shi,  Yang Lu,  Suha Beydoun,  Qiaoning Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:This paper delves into the dynamic landscape of artificial intelligence, specifically focusing on the burgeoning prominence of large language models (LLMs). We underscore the pivotal role of Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) in augmenting LLMs' rationality and decision-making prowess. By meticulously examining the intricate relationship between human interaction and LLM behavior, we explore questions surrounding rationality and performance disparities between humans and LLMs, with particular attention to the Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer. Our research employs comprehensive comparative analysis and delves into the inherent challenges of irrationality in LLMs, offering valuable insights and actionable strategies for enhancing their rationality. These findings hold significant implications for the widespread adoption of LLMs across diverse domains and applications, underscoring their potential to catalyze advancements in artificial intelligence.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [342]
标题:  Helpful or Harmful? Exploring the Efficacy of Large Language Models for  Online Grooming Prevention
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09795
作者:  Ellie Prosser,  Matthew Edwards
备注:  
Abstract:Powerful generative Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming popular tools amongst the general public as question-answering systems, and are being utilised by vulnerable groups such as children. With children increasingly interacting with these tools, it is imperative for researchers to scrutinise the safety of LLMs, especially for applications that could lead to serious outcomes, such as online child safety queries. In this paper, the efficacy of LLMs for online grooming prevention is explored both for identifying and avoiding grooming through advice generation, and the impact of prompt design on model performance is investigated by varying the provided context and prompt specificity. In results reflecting over 6,000 LLM interactions, we find that no models were clearly appropriate for online grooming prevention, with an observed lack of consistency in behaviours, and potential for harmful answer generation, especially from open-source models. We outline where and how models fall short, providing suggestions for improvement, and identify prompt designs that heavily altered model performance in troubling ways, with findings that can be used to inform best practice usage guides.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [343]
标题:  The Query Complexity of Contracts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09794
作者:  Paul Dütting,  Michal Feldman,  Yoav Gal-Tzur,  Aviad Rubinstein
备注:  
Abstract:Algorithmic contract design is a new frontier in the intersection of economics and computation, with combinatorial contracts being a core problem in this domain. A central model within combinatorial contracts explores a setting where a principal delegates the execution of a task, which can either succeed or fail, to an agent. The agent can choose any subset among a given set of costly actions, where every subset is associated with a success probability. The principal incentivizes the agent through a contract that specifies the payment upon success of the task. A natural setting of interest is one with submodular success probabilities. It is known that finding the optimal contract for the principal is $\mathsf{NP}$-hard, but the hardness result is derived from the hardness of demand queries. A major open problem is whether the hardness arises solely from the hardness of demand queries, or if the complexity lies within the optimal contract problem itself. In other words: does the problem retain its hardness, even when provided access to a demand oracle? We resolve this question in the affirmative, showing that any algorithm that computes the optimal contract for submodular success probabilities requires an exponential number of demand queries, thus settling the query complexity problem.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [344]
标题:  Socially Integrated Navigation: A Social Acting Robot with Deep  Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09793
作者:  Daniel Flögel,  Lars Fischer,  Thomas Rudolf,  Tobias Schürmann,  Sören Hohmann
备注:  
Abstract:Mobile robots are being used on a large scale in various crowded situations and become part of our society. The socially acceptable navigation behavior of a mobile robot with individual human consideration is an essential requirement for scalable applications and human acceptance. Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) approaches are recently used to learn a robot's navigation policy and to model the complex interactions between robots and humans. We propose to divide existing DRL-based navigation approaches based on the robot's exhibited social behavior and distinguish between social collision avoidance with a lack of social behavior and socially aware approaches with explicit predefined social behavior. In addition, we propose a novel socially integrated navigation approach where the robot's social behavior is adaptive and emerges from the interaction with humans. The formulation of our approach is derived from a sociological definition, which states that social acting is oriented toward the acting of others. The DRL policy is trained in an environment where other agents interact socially integrated and reward the robot's behavior individually. The simulation results indicate that the proposed socially integrated navigation approach outperforms a socially aware approach in terms of distance traveled, time to completion, and negative impact on all agents within the environment.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [345]
标题:  Images are Achilles' Heel of Alignment: Exploiting Visual  Vulnerabilities for Jailbreaking Multimodal Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09792
作者:  Yifan Li,  Hangyu Guo,  Kun Zhou,  Wayne Xin Zhao,  Ji-Rong Wen
备注:  Work in progress
Abstract:In this paper, we study the harmlessness alignment problem of multimodal large language models~(MLLMs). We conduct a systematic empirical analysis of the harmlessness performance of representative MLLMs and reveal that the image input poses the alignment vulnerability of MLLMs. Inspired by this, we propose a novel jailbreak method named HADES, which hides and amplifies the harmfulness of the malicious intent within the text input, using meticulously crafted images. Experimental results show that HADES can effectively jailbreak existing MLLMs, which achieves an average Attack Success Rate~(ASR) of 90.26% for LLaVA-1.5 and 71.60% for Gemini Pro Vision. Our code and data will be publicly released.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [346]
标题:  Redundancy Transmission in UAV-Aided LoRa Networks Featuring Wake-Up  Radios
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09782
作者:  Kushwanth Sistu,  Siddhartha S. Borkotoky
备注:  
Abstract:We consider a LoRa sensor network featuring a UAV-mounted gateway for collecting sensor data (messages). Wake-up radios (WuR) are employed to inform the sensors of the UAV's arrival. Building on an existing random access scheme for such setups, we propose and evaluate two redundancy transmission protocols for enhancing the reliability of the data transfer. One protocol employs fountain-coded transmissions, whereas the other performs message replication. Our results illustrate how redundancy transmission can be beneficial under the time constraints imposed by the UAV's limited hovering duration, and how node density, hovering time, and sensor energy budget impact the performance of the schemes.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [347]
标题:  An Image Is Worth 1000 Lies: Adversarial Transferability across Prompts  on Vision-Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09766
作者:  Haochen Luo,  Jindong Gu,  Fengyuan Liu,  Philip Torr
备注:  Accepted to ICLR 2024
Abstract:Different from traditional task-specific vision models, recent large VLMs can readily adapt to different vision tasks by simply using different textual instructions, i.e., prompts. However, a well-known concern about traditional task-specific vision models is that they can be misled by imperceptible adversarial perturbations. Furthermore, the concern is exacerbated by the phenomenon that the same adversarial perturbations can fool different task-specific models. Given that VLMs rely on prompts to adapt to different tasks, an intriguing question emerges: Can a single adversarial image mislead all predictions of VLMs when a thousand different prompts are given? This question essentially introduces a novel perspective on adversarial transferability: cross-prompt adversarial transferability. In this work, we propose the Cross-Prompt Attack (CroPA). This proposed method updates the visual adversarial perturbation with learnable prompts, which are designed to counteract the misleading effects of the adversarial image. By doing this, CroPA significantly improves the transferability of adversarial examples across prompts. Extensive experiments are conducted to verify the strong cross-prompt adversarial transferability of CroPA with prevalent VLMs including Flamingo, BLIP-2, and InstructBLIP in various different tasks. Our source code is available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [348]
标题:  Emotional Intelligence Through Artificial Intelligence : NLP and Deep  Learning in the Analysis of Healthcare Texts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09762
作者:  Prashant Kumar Nag,  Amit Bhagat,  R. Vishnu Priya,  Deepak kumar Khare
备注:  
Abstract:This manuscript presents a methodical examination of the utilization of Artificial Intelligence in the assessment of emotions in texts related to healthcare, with a particular focus on the incorporation of Natural Language Processing and deep learning technologies. We scrutinize numerous research studies that employ AI to augment sentiment analysis, categorize emotions, and forecast patient outcomes based on textual information derived from clinical narratives, patient feedback on medications, and online health discussions. The review demonstrates noteworthy progress in the precision of algorithms used for sentiment classification, the prognostic capabilities of AI models for neurodegenerative diseases, and the creation of AI-powered systems that offer support in clinical decision-making. Remarkably, the utilization of AI applications has exhibited an enhancement in personalized therapy plans by integrating patient sentiment and contributing to the early identification of mental health disorders. There persist challenges, which encompass ensuring the ethical application of AI, safeguarding patient confidentiality, and addressing potential biases in algorithmic procedures. Nevertheless, the potential of AI to revolutionize healthcare practices is unmistakable, offering a future where healthcare is not only more knowledgeable and efficient but also more empathetic and centered around the needs of patients. This investigation underscores the transformative influence of AI on healthcare, delivering a comprehensive comprehension of its role in examining emotional content in healthcare texts and highlighting the trajectory towards a more compassionate approach to patient care. The findings advocate for a harmonious synergy between AI's analytical capabilities and the human aspects of healthcare.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [349]
标题:  Reliability and Preventive Maintenance of Ducted Wind Turbines
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09760
作者:  Shafat Sharar,  Carl D. Hoover
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents a reliability life analysis and preventive maintenance schedule for ducted wind turbines. Ducted wind turbines (DWT) are an emerging segment of the renewable energy industry with innovations that promise reliable, efficient, low-cost energy for consumer and small business markets. Many attempts have been made to build viable ducted turbines over the last century, but until recently none have succeeded commercially. Optimal shroud and blade designs are the focus of most engineering research to improve performance and efficiency, however, we hypothesize that an equally important key to the long-term success of small wind innovations is reliability analysis. For consumers and companies who want to efficiently maximize the lifespan of DWTs, this has significant ramifications. Operating beyond service life can result in catastrophic component failure and high replacement costs, making the technology economically infeasible. Our approach is focused on the analysis of 3.5 kW D3 turbines manufactured by Ducted Wind Turbines, Inc. We develop a component-level reliability analysis using ASTM E3159 and a consumer-level preventative maintenance schedule including failure modes and life estimates. Future research can use these findings to guide options for DWT life extension as well as localized maintenance solutions meant to reduce operational costs while preserving energy output.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [350]
标题:  SpokeN-100: A Cross-Lingual Benchmarking Dataset for The Classification  of Spoken Numbers in Different Languages
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09753
作者:  René Groh,  Nina Goes,  Andreas M. Kist
备注:  Accepted as a full paper by the tinyML Research Symposium 2024
Abstract:Benchmarking plays a pivotal role in assessing and enhancing the performance of compact deep learning models designed for execution on resource-constrained devices, such as microcontrollers. Our study introduces a novel, entirely artificially generated benchmarking dataset tailored for speech recognition, representing a core challenge in the field of tiny deep learning. SpokeN-100 consists of spoken numbers from 0 to 99 spoken by 32 different speakers in four different languages, namely English, Mandarin, German and French, resulting in 12,800 audio samples. We determine auditory features and use UMAP (Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection for Dimension Reduction) as a dimensionality reduction method to show the diversity and richness of the dataset. To highlight the use case of the dataset, we introduce two benchmark tasks: given an audio sample, classify (i) the used language and/or (ii) the spoken number. We optimized state-of-the-art deep neural networks and performed an evolutionary neural architecture search to find tiny architectures optimized for the 32-bit ARM Cortex-M4 nRF52840 microcontroller. Our results represent the first benchmark data achieved for SpokeN-100.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [351]
标题:  Explainable Machine Learning-Based Security and Privacy Protection  Framework for Internet of Medical Things Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09752
作者:  Ayoub Si-ahmed,  Mohammed Ali Al-Garadi,  Narhimene Boustia
备注:  33 pages, 8 figures, journal paper
Abstract:The Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) transcends traditional medical boundaries, enabling a transition from reactive treatment to proactive prevention. This innovative method revolutionizes healthcare by facilitating early disease detection and tailored care, particularly in chronic disease management, where IoMT automates treatments based on real-time health data collection. Nonetheless, its benefits are countered by significant security challenges that endanger the lives of its users due to the sensitivity and value of the processed data, thereby attracting malicious interests. Moreover, the utilization of wireless communication for data transmission exposes medical data to interception and tampering by cybercriminals. Additionally, anomalies may arise due to human errors, network interference, or hardware malfunctions. In this context, anomaly detection based on Machine Learning (ML) is an interesting solution, but it comes up against obstacles in terms of explicability and protection of privacy. To address these challenges, a new framework for Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) is introduced, leveraging Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) for intrusion detection while utilizing Federated Learning (FL) for privacy preservation. Additionally, eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) methods are incorporated to enhance model explanation and interpretation. The efficacy of the proposed framework is evaluated and compared with centralized approaches using multiple datasets containing network and medical data, simulating various attack types impacting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of medical and physiological data. The results obtained offer compelling evidence that the FL method performs comparably to the centralized method, demonstrating high performance. Additionally, it affords the dual advantage of safeguarding privacy and providing model explanation.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [352]
标题:  What Was Your Prompt? A Remote Keylogging Attack on AI Assistants
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09751
作者:  Roy Weiss,  Daniel Ayzenshteyn,  Guy Amit,  Yisroel Mirsky
备注:  
Abstract:AI assistants are becoming an integral part of society, used for asking advice or help in personal and confidential issues. In this paper, we unveil a novel side-channel that can be used to read encrypted responses from AI Assistants over the web: the token-length side-channel. We found that many vendors, including OpenAI and Microsoft, have this side-channel. However, inferring the content of a response from a token-length sequence alone proves challenging. This is because tokens are akin to words, and responses can be several sentences long leading to millions of grammatically correct sentences. In this paper, we show how this can be overcome by (1) utilizing the power of a large language model (LLM) to translate these sequences, (2) providing the LLM with inter-sentence context to narrow the search space and (3) performing a known-plaintext attack by fine-tuning the model on the target model's writing style. Using these methods, we were able to accurately reconstruct 29\% of an AI assistant's responses and successfully infer the topic from 55\% of them. To demonstrate the threat, we performed the attack on OpenAI's ChatGPT-4 and Microsoft's Copilot on both browser and API traffic.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [353]
标题:  Meta-Cognitive Analysis: Evaluating Declarative and Procedural Knowledge  in Datasets and Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09750
作者:  Zhuoqun Li,  Hongyu Lin,  Yaojie Lu,  Hao Xiang,  Xianpei Han,  Le Sun
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024 as a short paper
Abstract:Declarative knowledge and procedural knowledge are two key parts in meta-cognitive theory, and these two hold significant importance in pre-training and inference of LLMs. However, a comprehensive analysis comparing these two types of knowledge is lacking, primarily due to challenges in definition, probing and quantitative assessment. In this paper, we explore from a new perspective by providing ground-truth knowledge for LLMs and evaluating the effective score. Through extensive experiments with widely-used datasets and models, we get conclusions: (1) In most tasks, benefits from declarative knowledge are greater than those from procedural knowledge. (2) Profits of procedural knowledge are larger than declarative knowledge only in reasoning tasks with simple logic. (3) As pre-training progresses and size increases, model ability to utilize both kinds of knowledge significantly improves, but in different speed. We do detailed analysis for the findings and this can provide primary guidance for evaluation and enhancement of large language models.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [354]
标题:  Towards Diverse Perspective Learning with Selection over Multiple  Temporal Poolings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09749
作者:  Jihyeon Seong,  Jungmin Kim,  Jaesik Choi
备注:  17 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:In Time Series Classification (TSC), temporal pooling methods that consider sequential information have been proposed. However, we found that each temporal pooling has a distinct mechanism, and can perform better or worse depending on time series data. We term this fixed pooling mechanism a single perspective of temporal poolings. In this paper, we propose a novel temporal pooling method with diverse perspective learning: Selection over Multiple Temporal Poolings (SoM-TP). SoM-TP dynamically selects the optimal temporal pooling among multiple methods for each data by attention. The dynamic pooling selection is motivated by the ensemble concept of Multiple Choice Learning (MCL), which selects the best among multiple outputs. The pooling selection by SoM-TP's attention enables a non-iterative pooling ensemble within a single classifier. Additionally, we define a perspective loss and Diverse Perspective Learning Network (DPLN). The loss works as a regularizer to reflect all the pooling perspectives from DPLN. Our perspective analysis using Layer-wise Relevance Propagation (LRP) reveals the limitation of a single perspective and ultimately demonstrates diverse perspective learning of SoM-TP. We also show that SoM-TP outperforms CNN models based on other temporal poolings and state-of-the-art models in TSC with extensive UCR/UEA repositories.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [355]
标题:  Re-Search for The Truth: Multi-round Retrieval-augmented Large Language  Models are Strong Fake News Detectors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09747
作者:  Guanghua Li,  Wensheng Lu,  Wei Zhang,  Defu Lian,  Kezhong Lu,  Rui Mao,  Kai Shu,  Hao Liao
备注:  
Abstract:The proliferation of fake news has had far-reaching implications on politics, the economy, and society at large. While Fake news detection methods have been employed to mitigate this issue, they primarily depend on two essential elements: the quality and relevance of the evidence, and the effectiveness of the verdict prediction mechanism. Traditional methods, which often source information from static repositories like Wikipedia, are limited by outdated or incomplete data, particularly for emerging or rare claims. Large Language Models (LLMs), known for their remarkable reasoning and generative capabilities, introduce a new frontier for fake news detection. However, like traditional methods, LLM-based solutions also grapple with the limitations of stale and long-tail knowledge. Additionally, retrieval-enhanced LLMs frequently struggle with issues such as low-quality evidence retrieval and context length constraints. To address these challenges, we introduce a novel, retrieval-augmented LLMs framework--the first of its kind to automatically and strategically extract key evidence from web sources for claim verification. Employing a multi-round retrieval strategy, our framework ensures the acquisition of sufficient, relevant evidence, thereby enhancing performance. Comprehensive experiments across three real-world datasets validate the framework's superiority over existing methods. Importantly, our model not only delivers accurate verdicts but also offers human-readable explanations to improve result interpretability.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [356]
标题:  PICNIQ: Pairwise Comparisons for Natural Image Quality Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09746
作者:  Nicolas Chahine,  Sira Ferradans,  Jean Ponce
备注:  
Abstract:Blind image quality assessment (BIQA) approaches, while promising for automating image quality evaluation, often fall short in real-world scenarios due to their reliance on a generic quality standard applied uniformly across diverse images. This one-size-fits-all approach overlooks the crucial perceptual relationship between image content and quality, leading to a 'domain shift' challenge where a single quality metric inadequately represents various content types. Furthermore, BIQA techniques typically overlook the inherent differences in the human visual system among different observers. In response to these challenges, this paper introduces PICNIQ, an innovative pairwise comparison framework designed to bypass the limitations of conventional BIQA by emphasizing relative, rather than absolute, quality assessment. PICNIQ is specifically designed to assess the quality differences between image pairs. The proposed framework implements a carefully crafted deep learning architecture, a specialized loss function, and a training strategy optimized for sparse comparison settings. By employing psychometric scaling algorithms like TrueSkill, PICNIQ transforms pairwise comparisons into just-objectionable-difference (JOD) quality scores, offering a granular and interpretable measure of image quality. We conduct our research using comparison matrices from the PIQ23 dataset, which are published in this paper. Our extensive experimental analysis showcases PICNIQ's broad applicability and superior performance over existing models, highlighting its potential to set new standards in the field of BIQA.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [357]
标题:  Evaluating the Application of Large Language Models to Generate Feedback  in Programming Education
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09744
作者:  Sven Jacobs,  Steffen Jaschke
备注:  accepted at IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference 2024, Kos, Greece
Abstract:This study investigates the application of large language models, specifically GPT-4, to enhance programming education. The research outlines the design of a web application that uses GPT-4 to provide feedback on programming tasks, without giving away the solution. A web application for working on programming tasks was developed for the study and evaluated with 51 students over the course of one semester. The results show that most of the feedback generated by GPT-4 effectively addressed code errors. However, challenges with incorrect suggestions and hallucinated issues indicate the need for further improvements.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [358]
标题:  The Human Factor in Detecting Errors of Large Language Models: A  Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Directions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09743
作者:  Christian A. Schiller
备注:  21 papers analysed and synthesized in detail from a total search result size of 594 (raw results) / 61 (scanned) / 28 (selected)
Abstract:The launch of ChatGPT by OpenAI in November 2022 marked a pivotal moment for Artificial Intelligence, introducing Large Language Models (LLMs) to the mainstream and setting new records in user adoption. LLMs, particularly ChatGPT, trained on extensive internet data, demonstrate remarkable conversational capabilities across various domains, suggesting a significant impact on the workforce. However, these models are susceptible to errors - "hallucinations" and omissions, generating incorrect or incomplete information. This poses risks especially in contexts where accuracy is crucial, such as legal compliance, medicine or fine-grained process frameworks. There are both technical and human solutions to cope with this isse. This paper explores the human factors that enable users to detect errors in LLM outputs, a critical component in mitigating risks associated with their use in professional settings. Understanding these factors is essential for organizations aiming to leverage LLM technology efficiently, guiding targeted training and deployment strategies to enhance error detection by users. This approach not only aims to optimize the use of LLMs but also to prevent potential downstream issues stemming from reliance on inaccurate model responses. The research emphasizes the balance between technological advancement and human insight in maximizing the benefits of LLMs while minimizing the risks, particularly in areas where precision is paramount. This paper performs a systematic literature research on this research topic, analyses and synthesizes the findings, and outlines future research directions. Literature selection cut-off date is January 11th 2024.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [359]
标题:  A Short Review on Novel Approaches for Maximum Clique Problem: from  Classical algorithms to Graph Neural Networks and Quantum algorithms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09742
作者:  Raffaele Marino,  Lorenzo Buffoni,  Bogdan Zavalnij
备注:  24 pages
Abstract:This manuscript provides a comprehensive review of the Maximum Clique Problem, a computational problem that involves finding subsets of vertices in a graph that are all pairwise adjacent to each other. The manuscript covers in a simple way classical algorithms for solving the problem and includes a review of recent developments in graph neural networks and quantum algorithms. The review concludes with benchmarks for testing classical as well as new learning, and quantum algorithms.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)

**编号**: [360]
标题:  Teaching Machines to Code: Smart Contract Translation with LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09740
作者:  Rabimba Karanjai,  Lei Xu,  Weidong Shi
备注:  
Abstract:The advent of large language models (LLMs) has marked a significant milestone in the realm of artificial intelligence, with their capabilities often matching or surpassing human expertise in various domains. Among these achievements, their adeptness in translation tasks stands out, closely mimicking the intricate and preliminary processes undertaken by human translators to ensure the fidelity and quality of the translated content. Despite the advancements in utilizing LLMs for translating programming code across different languages, the domain of smart contract translation, particularly into languages not previously encountered by the LLM, remains largely unexplored. In our research, we present a pioneering approach, SolMover, which harnesses the synergy of two distinct LLMs within a unified framework. This framework is designed to grasp coding principles and apply this understanding to the translation of code into an unfamiliar language. Our study delves into the capacity of LLMs to mimic human learning processes, offering an in-depth evaluation of our methodology for converting smart contracts written in Solidity to Move, a language with limited resources. The framework employs one LLM to decipher coding conventions for the new language, creating a blueprint for the second LLM, which, lacking planning abilities, possesses coding expertise. The empirical evidence from our experiments suggests that SolMover substantially enhances performance compared to gpt-3.5-turbo-1106, and achieves superior results over competitors such as Palm2 and Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct. Additionally, our analysis highlights the efficacy of our bug mitigation strategy in elevating code quality across all models, even outside the SolMover framework.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [361]
标题:  Evaluating Large Language Models as Generative User Simulators for  Conversational Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09738
作者:  Se-eun Yoon,  Zhankui He,  Jessica Maria Echterhoff,  Julian McAuley
备注:  
Abstract:Synthetic users are cost-effective proxies for real users in the evaluation of conversational recommender systems. Large language models show promise in simulating human-like behavior, raising the question of their ability to represent a diverse population of users. We introduce a new protocol to measure the degree to which language models can accurately emulate human behavior in conversational recommendation. This protocol is comprised of five tasks, each designed to evaluate a key property that a synthetic user should exhibit: choosing which items to talk about, expressing binary preferences, expressing open-ended preferences, requesting recommendations, and giving feedback. Through evaluation of baseline simulators, we demonstrate these tasks effectively reveal deviations of language models from human behavior, and offer insights on how to reduce the deviations with model selection and prompting strategies.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [362]
标题:  A Sophisticated Framework for the Accurate Detection of Phishing  Websites
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09735
作者:  Asif Newaz,  Farhan Shahriyar Haq,  Nadim Ahmed
备注:  
Abstract:Phishing is an increasingly sophisticated form of cyberattack that is inflicting huge financial damage to corporations throughout the globe while also jeopardizing individuals' privacy. Attackers are constantly devising new methods of launching such assaults and detecting them has become a daunting task. Many different techniques have been suggested, each with its own pros and cons. While machine learning-based techniques have been most successful in identifying such attacks, they continue to fall short in terms of performance and generalizability. This paper proposes a comprehensive methodology for detecting phishing websites. The goal is to design a system that is capable of accurately distinguishing phishing websites from legitimate ones and provides generalized performance over a broad variety of datasets. A combination of feature selection, greedy algorithm, cross-validation, and deep learning methods have been utilized to construct a sophisticated stacking ensemble classifier. Extensive experimentation on four different phishing datasets was conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed technique. The proposed algorithm outperformed the other existing phishing detection models obtaining accuracy of 97.49%, 98.23%, 97.48%, and 98.20% on dataset-1 (UCI Phishing Websites Dataset), dataset-2 (Phishing Dataset for Machine Learning: Feature Evaluation), dataset-3 (Phishing Websites Dataset), and dataset-4 (Web page phishing detection), respectively. The high accuracy values obtained across all datasets imply the models' generalizability and effectiveness in the accurate identification of phishing websites.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [363]
标题:  Do Large Language Models Solve ARC Visual Analogies Like People Do?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09734
作者:  Gustaw Opiełka,  Hannes Rosenbusch,  Veerle Vijverberg,  Claire E. Stevenson
备注:  
Abstract:The Abstraction Reasoning Corpus (ARC) is a visual analogical reasoning test designed for humans and machines (Chollet, 2019). We compared human and large language model (LLM) performance on a new child-friendly set of ARC items. Results show that both children and adults outperform most LLMs on these tasks. Error analysis revealed a similar "fallback" solution strategy in LLMs and young children, where part of the analogy is simply copied. In addition, we found two other error types, one based on seemingly grasping key concepts (e.g., Inside-Outside) and the other based on simple combinations of analogy input matrices. On the whole, "concept" errors were more common in humans, and "matrix" errors were more common in LLMs. This study sheds new light on LLM reasoning ability and the extent to which we can use error analyses and comparisons with human development to understand how LLMs solve visual analogies.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [364]
标题:  OverleafCopilot: Empowering Academic Writing in Overleaf with Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09733
作者:  Haomin Wen,  Zhenjie Wei,  Yan Lin,  Jiyuan Wang,  Yuxuan Liang,  Huaiyu Wan
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has facilitated a variety of applications from different domains. In this technical report, we explore the integration of LLMs and the popular academic writing tool, Overleaf, to enhance the efficiency and quality of academic writing. To achieve the above goal, there are three challenges: i) including seamless interaction between Overleaf and LLMs, ii) establishing reliable communication with the LLM provider, and iii) ensuring user privacy. To address these challenges, we present OverleafCopilot, the first-ever tool (i.e., a browser extension) that seamlessly integrates LLMs and Overleaf, enabling researchers to leverage the power of LLMs while writing papers. Specifically, we first propose an effective framework to bridge LLMs and Overleaf. Then, we developed PromptGenius, a website for researchers to easily find and share high-quality up-to-date prompts. Thirdly, we propose an agent command system to help researchers quickly build their customizable agents. OverleafCopilot (this https URL ) has been on the Chrome Extension Store, which now serves thousands of researchers. Additionally, the code of PromptGenius is released at this https URL. We believe our work has the potential to revolutionize academic writing practices, empowering researchers to produce higher-quality papers in less time.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [365]
标题:  PET-SQL: A Prompt-enhanced Two-stage Text-to-SQL Framework with  Cross-consistency
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09732
作者:  Zhishuai Li,  Xiang Wang,  Jingjing Zhao,  Sun Yang,  Guoqing Du,  Xiaoru Hu,  Bin Zhang,  Yuxiao Ye,  Ziyue Li,  Rui Zhao,  Hangyu Mao
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in Text-to-SQL (Text2SQL) emphasize stimulating the large language models (LLM) on in-context learning, achieving significant results. Nevertheless, they face challenges when dealing with verbose database information and complex user intentions. This paper presents a two-stage framework to enhance the performance of current LLM-based natural language to SQL systems. We first introduce a novel prompt representation, called reference-enhanced representation, which includes schema information and randomly sampled cell values from tables to instruct LLMs in generating SQL queries. Then, in the first stage, question-SQL pairs are retrieved as few-shot demonstrations, prompting the LLM to generate a preliminary SQL (PreSQL). After that, the mentioned entities in PreSQL are parsed to conduct schema linking, which can significantly compact the useful information. In the second stage, with the linked schema, we simplify the prompt's schema information and instruct the LLM to produce the final SQL. Finally, as the post-refinement module, we propose using cross-consistency across different LLMs rather than self-consistency within a particular LLM. Our methods achieve new SOTA results on the Spider benchmark, with an execution accuracy of 87.6%.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [366]
标题:  Simulating Weighted Automata over Sequences and Trees with Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09728
作者:  Michael Rizvi,  Maude Lizaire,  Clara Lacroce,  Guillaume Rabusseau
备注:  
Abstract:Transformers are ubiquitous models in the natural language processing (NLP) community and have shown impressive empirical successes in the past few years. However, little is understood about how they reason and the limits of their computational capabilities. These models do not process data sequentially, and yet outperform sequential neural models such as RNNs. Recent work has shown that these models can compactly simulate the sequential reasoning abilities of deterministic finite automata (DFAs). This leads to the following question: can transformers simulate the reasoning of more complex finite state machines? In this work, we show that transformers can simulate weighted finite automata (WFAs), a class of models which subsumes DFAs, as well as weighted tree automata (WTA), a generalization of weighted automata to tree structured inputs. We prove these claims formally and provide upper bounds on the sizes of the transformer models needed as a function of the number of states the target automata. Empirically, we perform synthetic experiments showing that transformers are able to learn these compact solutions via standard gradient-based training.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)

**编号**: [367]
标题:  Investigating the performance of Retrieval-Augmented Generation and  fine-tuning for the development of AI-driven knowledge-based systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09727
作者:  Robert Lakatos,  Peter Pollner,  Andras Hajdu,  Tamas Joo
备注:  
Abstract:The development of generative large language models (G-LLM) opened up new opportunities for the development of new types of knowledge-based systems similar to ChatGPT, Bing, or Gemini. Fine-tuning (FN) and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) are the techniques that can be used to implement domain adaptation for the development of G-LLM-based knowledge systems. In our study, using ROUGE, BLEU, METEOR scores, and cosine similarity, we compare and examine the performance of RAG and FN for the GPT-J-6B, OPT-6.7B, LlaMA, LlaMA-2 language models. Based on measurements shown on different datasets, we demonstrate that RAG-based constructions are more efficient than models produced with FN. We point out that connecting RAG and FN is not trivial, because connecting FN models with RAG can cause a decrease in performance. Furthermore, we outline a simple RAG-based architecture which, on average, outperforms the FN models by 16% in terms of the ROGUE score, 15% in the case of the BLEU score, and 53% based on the cosine similarity. This shows the significant advantage of RAG over FN in terms of hallucination, which is not offset by the fact that the average 8% better METEOR score of FN models indicates greater creativity compared to RAG.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [368]
标题:  RAD-PHI2: Instruction Tuning PHI-2 for Radiology
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09725
作者:  Mercy Ranjit,  Gopinath Ganapathy,  Shaury Srivastav,  Tanuja Ganu,  Srujana Oruganti
备注:  
Abstract:Small Language Models (SLMs) have shown remarkable performance in general domain language understanding, reasoning and coding tasks, but their capabilities in the medical domain, particularly concerning radiology text, is less explored. In this study, we investigate the application of SLMs for general radiology knowledge specifically question answering related to understanding of symptoms, radiological appearances of findings, differential diagnosis, assessing prognosis, and suggesting treatments w.r.t diseases pertaining to different organ systems. Additionally, we explore the utility of SLMs in handling text-related tasks with respect to radiology reports within AI-driven radiology workflows. We fine-tune Phi-2, a SLM with 2.7 billion parameters using high-quality educational content from Radiopaedia, a collaborative online radiology resource. The resulting language model, RadPhi-2-Base, exhibits the ability to address general radiology queries across various systems (e.g., chest, cardiac). Furthermore, we investigate Phi-2 for instruction tuning, enabling it to perform specific tasks. By fine-tuning Phi-2 on both general domain tasks and radiology-specific tasks related to chest X-ray reports, we create Rad-Phi2. Our empirical results reveal that Rad-Phi2 Base and Rad-Phi2 perform comparably or even outperform larger models such as Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2 and GPT-4 providing concise and precise answers. In summary, our work demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness of utilizing SLMs in radiology workflows both for knowledge related queries as well as for performing specific tasks related to radiology reports thereby opening up new avenues for enhancing the quality and efficiency of radiology practice.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [369]
标题:  ClaimVer: Explainable Claim-Level Verification and Evidence Attribution  of Text Through Knowledge Graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09724
作者:  Preetam Prabhu Srikar Dammu,  Himanshu Naidu,  Mouly Dewan,  YoungMin Kim,  Tanya Roosta,  Aman Chadha,  Chirag Shah
备注:  
Abstract:In the midst of widespread misinformation and disinformation through social media and the proliferation of AI-generated texts, it has become increasingly difficult for people to validate and trust information they encounter. Many fact-checking approaches and tools have been developed, but they often lack appropriate explainability or granularity to be useful in various contexts. A text validation method that is easy to use, accessible, and can perform fine-grained evidence attribution has become crucial. More importantly, building user trust in such a method requires presenting the rationale behind each prediction, as research shows this significantly influences people's belief in automated systems. It is also paramount to localize and bring users' attention to the specific problematic content, instead of providing simple blanket labels. In this paper, we present $\textit{ClaimVer, a human-centric framework}$ tailored to meet users' informational and verification needs by generating rich annotations and thereby reducing cognitive load. Designed to deliver comprehensive evaluations of texts, it highlights each claim, verifies it against a trusted knowledge graph (KG), presents the evidence, and provides succinct, clear explanations for each claim prediction. Finally, our framework introduces an attribution score, enhancing applicability across a wide range of downstream tasks.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [370]
标题:  Prediction of readmission of patients by extracting biomedical concepts  from clinical texts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09722
作者:  Rasoul Samani,  Fahime Shahrokh,  Mohammad Dehghani
备注:  
Abstract:Today, the existence of a vast amount of electronic health data has created potential capacities for conducting studies aiming to improve the medical services provided to patients and reduce the costs of the healthcare system. One of the topics that has been receiving attention in the field of medicine in recent years is the identification of patients who are likely to be re-hospitalized shortly after being discharged from the hospital. This identification can help doctors choose appropriate treatment methods, thereby reducing the rate of patient re-hospitalization and resulting in effective treatment cost reduction. In this study, the prediction of patient re-hospitalization using text mining approaches and the processing of discharge report texts in the patient's electronic file has been discussed. To this end, the performance of various machine learning models has been evaluated using two approaches: bag of word and bag of concept, in the process of predicting patient readmission. Comparing the efficiency of these approaches has shown the superiority of the random forest model and the bag of concept approach over other machine learning models and approaches. This research has achieved the highest score in predicting the probability of patient re-hospitalization, with a recall score of 68.9%, compared to similar works that have utilized machine learning models in this field.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [371]
标题:  A Semantic Mention Graph Augmented Model for Document-Level Event  Argument Extraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09721
作者:  Jian Zhang,  Changlin Yang,  Haiping Zhu,  Qika Lin,  Fangzhi Xu,  Jun Liu
备注:  Accepted By Coling 2024
Abstract:Document-level Event Argument Extraction (DEAE) aims to identify arguments and their specific roles from an unstructured document. The advanced approaches on DEAE utilize prompt-based methods to guide pre-trained language models (PLMs) in extracting arguments from input documents. They mainly concentrate on establishing relations between triggers and entity mentions within documents, leaving two unresolved problems: a) independent modeling of entity mentions; b) document-prompt isolation. To this end, we propose a semantic mention Graph Augmented Model (GAM) to address these two problems in this paper. Firstly, GAM constructs a semantic mention graph that captures relations within and between documents and prompts, encompassing co-existence, co-reference and co-type relations. Furthermore, we introduce an ensembled graph transformer module to address mentions and their three semantic relations effectively. Later, the graph-augmented encoder-decoder module incorporates the relation-specific graph into the input embedding of PLMs and optimizes the encoder section with topology information, enhancing the relations comprehensively. Extensive experiments on the RAMS and WikiEvents datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, surpassing baseline methods and achieving a new state-of-the-art performance.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [372]
标题:  Fine-tuning vs Prompting, Can Language Models Understand Human Values?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09720
作者:  Pingwei Sun
备注:  
Abstract:Accurately handling the underlying support values in sentences is crucial for understanding the speaker's tendencies, yet it poses a challenging task in natural language understanding (NLU). In this article, we explore the potential of fine-tuning and prompt tuning in this downstream task, using the Human Value Detection 2023. Additionally, we attempt to validate whether models can effectively solve the problem based on the knowledge acquired during the pre-training stage. Simultaneously, our interest lies in the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) aligned with RLHF in this task, and some preliminary attempts are presented.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [373]
标题:  Mevaker: Conclusion Extraction and Allocation Resources for the Hebrew  Language
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09719
作者:  Vitaly Shalumov,  Harel Haskey,  Yuval Solaz
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we introduce summarization MevakerSumm and conclusion extraction MevakerConc datasets for the Hebrew language based on the State Comptroller and Ombudsman of Israel reports, along with two auxiliary datasets. We accompany these datasets with models for conclusion extraction (HeConE, HeConEspc) and conclusion allocation (HeCross). All of the code, datasets, and model checkpoints used in this work are publicly available.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [374]
标题:  Comprehensive Implementation of TextCNN for Enhanced Collaboration  between Natural Language Processing and System Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09718
作者:  Xiaonan Xu,  Zheng Xu,  Zhipeng Ling,  Zhengyu Jin,  ShuQian Du
备注:  
Abstract:Natural Language Processing (NLP) is an important branch of artificial intelligence that studies how to enable computers to understand, process, and generate human language. Text classification is a fundamental task in NLP, which aims to classify text into different predefined categories. Text classification is the most basic and classic task in natural language processing, and most of the tasks in natural language processing can be regarded as classification tasks. In recent years, deep learning has achieved great success in many research fields, and today, it has also become a standard technology in the field of NLP, which is widely integrated into text classification tasks. Unlike numbers and images, text processing emphasizes fine-grained processing ability. Traditional text classification methods generally require preprocessing the input model's text data. Additionally, they also need to obtain good sample features through manual annotation and then use classical machine learning algorithms for classification. Therefore, this paper analyzes the application status of deep learning in the three core tasks of NLP (including text representation, word order modeling, and knowledge representation). This content explores the improvement and synergy achieved through natural language processing in the context of text classification, while also taking into account the challenges posed by adversarial techniques in text generation, text classification, and semantic parsing. An empirical study on text classification tasks demonstrates the effectiveness of interactive integration training, particularly in conjunction with TextCNN, highlighting the significance of these advancements in text classification augmentation and enhancement.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [375]
标题:  Enhancing Depression-Diagnosis-Oriented Chat with Psychological State  Tracking
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09717
作者:  Yiyang Gu,  Yougen Zhou,  Qin Chen,  Ningning Zhou,  Jie Zhou,  Aimin Zhou,  Liang He
备注:  
Abstract:Depression-diagnosis-oriented chat aims to guide patients in self-expression to collect key symptoms for depression detection. Recent work focuses on combining task-oriented dialogue and chitchat to simulate the interview-based depression diagnosis. Whereas, these methods can not well capture the changing information, feelings, or symptoms of the patient during dialogues. Moreover, no explicit framework has been explored to guide the dialogue, which results in some useless communications that affect the experience. In this paper, we propose to integrate Psychological State Tracking (POST) within the large language model (LLM) to explicitly guide depression-diagnosis-oriented chat. Specifically, the state is adapted from a psychological theoretical model, which consists of four components, namely Stage, Information, Summary and Next. We fine-tune an LLM model to generate the dynamic psychological state, which is further used to assist response generation at each turn to simulate the psychiatrist. Experimental results on the existing benchmark show that our proposed method boosts the performance of all subtasks in depression-diagnosis-oriented chat.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [376]
标题:  Textual analysis of End User License Agreement for red-flagging  potentially malicious software
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09715
作者:  Behraj Khan,  Tahir Syed,  Zeshan Khan,  Muhammad Rafi
备注:  
Abstract:New software and updates are downloaded by end users every day. Each dowloaded software has associated with it an End Users License Agreements (EULA), but this is rarely read. An EULA includes information to avoid legal repercussions. However,this proposes a host of potential problems such as spyware or producing an unwanted affect in the target system. End users do not read these EULA's because of length of the document and users find it extremely difficult to understand. Text summarization is one of the relevant solution to these kind of problems. This require a solution which can summarize the EULA and classify the EULA as "Benign" or "Malicious". We propose a solution in which we have summarize the EULA and classify the EULA as "Benign" or "Malicious". We extract EULA text of different sofware's then we classify the text using eight different supervised classifiers. we use ensemble learning to classify the EULA as benign or malicious using five different text summarization methods. An accuracy of $95.8$\% shows the effectiveness of the presented approach.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [377]
标题:  Linguistic Structure Induction from Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09714
作者:  Omar Momen
备注:  Master's Thesis. Supervised by Laura Kallmeyer and David Arps
Abstract:Linear sequences of words are implicitly represented in our brains by hierarchical structures that organize the composition of words in sentences. Linguists formalize different frameworks to model this hierarchy; two of the most common syntactic frameworks are Constituency and Dependency. Constituency represents sentences as nested groups of phrases, while dependency represents a sentence by assigning relations between its words. Recently, the pursuit of intelligent machines has produced Language Models (LMs) capable of solving many language tasks with a human-level performance. Many studies now question whether LMs implicitly represent syntactic hierarchies. This thesis focuses on producing constituency and dependency structures from LMs in an unsupervised setting. I review the critical methods in this field and highlight a line of work that utilizes a numerical representation for binary constituency trees (Syntactic Distance). I present a detailed study on StructFormer (SF) (Shen et al., 2021), which retrofits a transformer encoder architecture with a parser network to produce constituency and dependency structures. I present six experiments to analyze and address this field's challenges; experiments include investigating the effect of repositioning the parser network within the SF architecture, evaluating subword-based induced trees, and benchmarking the models developed in the thesis experiments on linguistic tasks. Models benchmarking is performed by participating in the BabyLM challenge, published at CoNLL 2023 (Momen et al., 2023). The results of this thesis encourage further development in the direction of retrofitting transformer-based models to induce syntactic structures, supported by the acceptable performance of SF in different experimental settings and the observed limitations that require innovative solutions to advance the state of syntactic structure induction.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [378]
标题:  A Hybrid Intelligence Method for Argument Mining
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09713
作者:  Michiel van der Meer,  Enrico Liscio,  Catholijn M. Jonker,  Aske Plaat,  Piek Vossen,  Pradeep K. Murukannaiah
备注:  Submitted to JAIR
Abstract:Large-scale survey tools enable the collection of citizen feedback in opinion corpora. Extracting the key arguments from a large and noisy set of opinions helps in understanding the opinions quickly and accurately. Fully automated methods can extract arguments but (1) require large labeled datasets that induce large annotation costs and (2) work well for known viewpoints, but not for novel points of view. We propose HyEnA, a hybrid (human + AI) method for extracting arguments from opinionated texts, combining the speed of automated processing with the understanding and reasoning capabilities of humans. We evaluate HyEnA on three citizen feedback corpora. We find that, on the one hand, HyEnA achieves higher coverage and precision than a state-of-the-art automated method when compared to a common set of diverse opinions, justifying the need for human insight. On the other hand, HyEnA requires less human effort and does not compromise quality compared to (fully manual) expert analysis, demonstrating the benefit of combining human and artificial intelligence.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [379]
标题:  A Knowledge-Injected Curriculum Pretraining Framework for Question  Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09712
作者:  Xin Lin,  Tianhuang Su,  Zhenya Huang,  Shangzi Xue,  Haifeng Liu,  Enhong Chen
备注:  Accepted by WWW 2024
Abstract:Knowledge-based question answering (KBQA) is a key task in NLP research, and also an approach to access the web data and knowledge, which requires exploiting knowledge graphs (KGs) for reasoning. In the literature, one promising solution for KBQA is to incorporate the pretrained language model (LM) with KGs by generating KG-centered pretraining corpus, which has shown its superiority. However, these methods often depend on specific techniques and resources to work, which may not always be available and restrict its application. Moreover, existing methods focus more on improving language understanding with KGs, while neglect the more important human-like complex reasoning. To this end, in this paper, we propose a general Knowledge-Injected Curriculum Pretraining framework (KICP) to achieve comprehensive KG learning and exploitation for KBQA tasks, which is composed of knowledge injection (KI), knowledge adaptation (KA) and curriculum reasoning (CR). Specifically, the KI module first injects knowledge into the LM by generating KG-centered pretraining corpus, and generalizes the process into three key steps that could work with different implementations for flexible application. Next, the KA module learns knowledge from the generated corpus with LM equipped with an adapter as well as keeps its original natural language understanding ability to reduce the negative impacts of the difference between the generated and natural corpus. Last, to enable the LM with complex reasoning, the CR module follows human reasoning patterns to construct three corpora with increasing difficulties of reasoning, and further trains the LM from easy to hard in a curriculum manner. We provide an implementation of the general framework, and evaluate the proposed KICP on four real-word datasets. The results demonstrate that our framework can achieve higher performances.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [380]
标题:  Exploratory Data Analysis on Code-mixed Misogynistic Comments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09709
作者:  Sargam Yadav (1),  Abhishek Kaushik (1),  Kevin McDaid (1) ((1) Dundalk Institute of Technology, Dundalk)
备注:  This paper is accepted in the 16th ISDSI-Global Conference 2023 this https URL
Abstract:The problems of online hate speech and cyberbullying have significantly worsened since the increase in popularity of social media platforms such as YouTube and Twitter (X). Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques have proven to provide a great advantage in automatic filtering such toxic content. Women are disproportionately more likely to be victims of online abuse. However, there appears to be a lack of studies that tackle misogyny detection in under-resourced languages. In this short paper, we present a novel dataset of YouTube comments in mix-code Hinglish collected from YouTube videos which have been weak labelled as `Misogynistic' and `Non-misogynistic'. Pre-processing and Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) techniques have been applied on the dataset to gain insights on its characteristics. The process has provided a better understanding of the dataset through sentiment scores, word clouds, etc.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [381]
标题:  Institutional-Level Monitoring of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor IrAEs  Using a Novel Natural Language Processing Algorithmic Pipeline
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09708
作者:  Michael Shapiro,  Herut Dor,  Anna Gurevich-Shapiro,  Tal Etan,  Ido Wolf
备注:  
Abstract:Background: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized cancer treatment but can result in severe immune-related adverse events (IrAEs). Monitoring IrAEs on a large scale is essential for personalized risk profiling and assisting in treatment decisions. Methods: In this study, we conducted an analysis of clinical notes from patients who received ICIs at the Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center. By employing a Natural Language Processing algorithmic pipeline, we systematically identified seven common or severe IrAEs. We examined the utilization of corticosteroids, treatment discontinuation rates following IrAEs, and constructed survival curves to visualize the occurrence of adverse events during treatment. Results: Our analysis encompassed 108,280 clinical notes associated with 1,635 patients who had undergone ICI therapy. The detected incidence of IrAEs was consistent with previous reports, exhibiting substantial variation across different ICIs. Treatment with corticosteroids varied depending on the specific IrAE, ranging from 17.3% for thyroiditis to 57.4% for myocarditis. Our algorithm demonstrated high accuracy in identifying IrAEs, as indicated by an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.89 for each suspected note and F1 scores of 0.87 or higher for five out of the seven IrAEs examined at the patient level. Conclusions: This study presents a novel, large-scale monitoring approach utilizing deep neural networks for IrAEs. Our method provides accurate results, enhancing understanding of detrimental consequences experienced by ICI-treated patients. Moreover, it holds potential for monitoring other medications, enabling comprehensive post-marketing surveillance to identify susceptible populations and establish personalized drug safety profiles.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [382]
标题:  Schema-Aware Multi-Task Learning for Complex Text-to-SQL
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09706
作者:  Yangjun Wu,  Han Wang
备注:  8pages
Abstract:Conventional text-to-SQL parsers are not good at synthesizing complex SQL queries that involve multiple tables or columns, due to the challenges inherent in identifying the correct schema items and performing accurate alignment between question and schema items. To address the above issue, we present a schema-aware multi-task learning framework (named MTSQL) for complicated SQL queries. Specifically, we design a schema linking discriminator module to distinguish the valid question-schema linkings, which explicitly instructs the encoder by distinctive linking relations to enhance the alignment quality. On the decoder side, we define 6-type relationships to describe the connections between tables and columns (e.g., WHERE_TC), and introduce an operator-centric triple extractor to recognize those associated schema items with the predefined relationship. Also, we establish a rule set of grammar constraints via the predicted triples to filter the proper SQL operators and schema items during the SQL generation. On Spider, a cross-domain challenging text-to-SQL benchmark, experimental results indicate that MTSQL is more effective than baselines, especially in extremely hard scenarios. Moreover, further analyses verify that our approach leads to promising improvements for complicated SQL queries.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [383]
标题:  A Novel Nuanced Conversation Evaluation Framework for Large Language  Models in Mental Health
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09705
作者:  Alexander Marrapese,  Basem Suleiman,  Imdad Ullah,  Juno Kim
备注:  
Abstract:Understanding the conversation abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) can help lead to its more cautious and appropriate deployment. This is especially important for safety-critical domains like mental health, where someone's life may depend on the exact wording of a response to an urgent question. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for evaluating the nuanced conversation abilities of LLMs. Within it, we develop a series of quantitative metrics developed from literature on using psychotherapy conversation analysis literature. While we ensure that our framework and metrics are transferable by researchers to relevant adjacent domains, we apply them to the mental health field. We use our framework to evaluate several popular frontier LLMs, including some GPT and Llama models, through a verified mental health dataset. Our results show that GPT4 Turbo can perform significantly more similarly to verified therapists than other selected LLMs. We conduct additional analysis to examine how LLM conversation performance varies across specific mental health topics. Our results indicate that GPT4 Turbo performs well in achieving high correlation with verified therapists in particular topics such as Parenting and Relationships. We believe our contributions will help researchers develop better LLMs that, in turn, will more positively support people's lives.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [384]
标题:  Alignment Studio: Aligning Large Language Models to Particular  Contextual Regulations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09704
作者:  Swapnaja Achintalwar,  Ioana Baldini,  Djallel Bouneffouf,  Joan Byamugisha,  Maria Chang,  Pierre Dognin,  Eitan Farchi,  Ndivhuwo Makondo,  Aleksandra Mojsilovic,  Manish Nagireddy,  Karthikeyan Natesan Ramamurthy,  Inkit Padhi,  Orna Raz,  Jesus Rios,  Prasanna Sattigeri,  Moninder Singh,  Siphiwe Thwala,  Rosario A. Uceda-Sosa,  Kush R. Varshney
备注:  7 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:The alignment of large language models is usually done by model providers to add or control behaviors that are common or universally understood across use cases and contexts. In contrast, in this article, we present an approach and architecture that empowers application developers to tune a model to their particular values, social norms, laws and other regulations, and orchestrate between potentially conflicting requirements in context. We lay out three main components of such an Alignment Studio architecture: Framers, Instructors, and Auditors that work in concert to control the behavior of a language model. We illustrate this approach with a running example of aligning a company's internal-facing enterprise chatbot to its business conduct guidelines.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [385]
标题:  Concept-aware Data Construction Improves In-context Learning of Language  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09703
作者:  Michal Štefánik,  Marek Kadlčík,  Petr Sojka
备注:  
Abstract:Many recent language models (LMs) are capable of in-context learning (ICL), manifested in the LMs' ability to perform a new task solely from natural-language instruction. Previous work curating in-context learners assumes that ICL emerges from a vast over-parametrization or the scale of multi-task training. However, recent theoretical work attributes the ICL ability to concept-dependent training data and creates functional in-context learners even in small-scale, synthetic settings. In this work, we practically explore this newly identified axis of ICL quality. We propose Concept-aware Training (CoAT), a framework for constructing training scenarios that make it beneficial for the LM to learn to utilize the analogical reasoning concepts from demonstrations. We find that by using CoAT, pre-trained transformers can learn to better utilise new latent concepts from demonstrations and that such ability makes ICL more robust to the functional deficiencies of the previous models. Finally, we show that concept-aware in-context learning is more effective for a majority of new tasks when compared to traditional instruction tuning, resulting in a performance comparable to the previous in-context learners using magnitudes of more training data.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [386]
标题:  Generator-Guided Crowd Reaction Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09702
作者:  Sohom Ghosh,  Chung-Chi Chen,  Sudip Kumar Naskar
备注:  Accepted for publication in The ACM Web Conference WWW'24 Companion Short Papers Track, May 13 to 17 2024, Singapore, DOI 10.1145/3589335.3651512
Abstract:In the realm of social media, understanding and predicting post reach is a significant challenge. This paper presents a Crowd Reaction AssessMent (CReAM) task designed to estimate if a given social media post will receive more reaction than another, a particularly essential task for digital marketers and content writers. We introduce the Crowd Reaction Estimation Dataset (CRED), consisting of pairs of tweets from The White House with comparative measures of retweet count. The proposed Generator-Guided Estimation Approach (GGEA) leverages generative Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, FLAN-UL2, and Claude, to guide classification models for making better predictions. Our results reveal that a fine-tuned FLANG-RoBERTa model, utilizing a cross-encoder architecture with tweet content and responses generated by Claude, performs optimally. We further use a T5-based paraphraser to generate paraphrases of a given post and demonstrate GGEA's ability to predict which post will elicit the most reactions. We believe this novel application of LLMs provides a significant advancement in predicting social media post reach.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [387]
标题:  A Natural Extension To Online Algorithms For Hybrid RL With Limited  Coverage
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09701
作者:  Kevin Tan,  Ziping Xu
备注:  Submitted to the reinforcement learning conference
Abstract:Hybrid Reinforcement Learning (RL), leveraging both online and offline data, has garnered recent interest, yet research on its provable benefits remains sparse. Additionally, many existing hybrid RL algorithms (Song et al., 2023; Nakamoto et al., 2023; Amortila et al., 2024) impose coverage assumptions on the offline dataset, but we show that this is unnecessary. A well-designed online algorithm should "fill in the gaps" in the offline dataset, exploring states and actions that the behavior policy did not explore. Unlike previous approaches that focus on estimating the offline data distribution to guide online exploration (Li et al., 2023b), we show that a natural extension to standard optimistic online algorithms -- warm-starting them by including the offline dataset in the experience replay buffer -- achieves similar provable gains from hybrid data even when the offline dataset does not have single-policy concentrability. We accomplish this by partitioning the state-action space into two, bounding the regret on each partition through an offline and an online complexity measure, and showing that the regret of this hybrid RL algorithm can be characterized by the best partition -- despite the algorithm not knowing the partition itself. As an example, we propose DISC-GOLF, a modification of an existing optimistic online algorithm with general function approximation called GOLF used in Jin et al. (2021); Xie et al. (2022a), and show that it demonstrates provable gains over both online-only and offline-only reinforcement learning, with competitive bounds when specialized to the tabular, linear and block MDP cases. Numerical simulations further validate our theory that hybrid data facilitates more efficient exploration, supporting the potential of hybrid RL in various scenarios.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [388]
标题:  Shapley Values-Powered Framework for Fair Reward Split in Content  Produced by GenAI
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09700
作者:  Alex Glinsky,  Alexey Sokolsky
备注:  35 pages, 31 figures
Abstract:It is evident that, currently, generative models are surpassed in quality by human professionals. However, with the advancements in Artificial Intelligence, this gap will narrow, leading to scenarios where individuals who have dedicated years of their lives to mastering a skill become obsolete due to their high costs, which are inherently linked to the time they require to complete a task -- a task that AI could accomplish in minutes or seconds. To avoid future social upheavals, we must, even now, contemplate how to fairly assess the contributions of such individuals in training generative models and how to compensate them for the reduction or complete loss of their incomes. In this work, we propose a method to structure collaboration between model developers and data providers. To achieve this, we employ Shapley Values to quantify the contribution of artist(s) in an image generated by the Stable Diffusion-v1.5 model and to equitably allocate the reward among them.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [389]
标题:  Counterfactual Image Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09683
作者:  Yushu Pan,  Elias Bareinboim
备注:  
Abstract:Counterfactual image editing is an important task in generative AI, which asks how an image would look if certain features were different. The current literature on the topic focuses primarily on changing individual features while remaining silent about the causal relationships between these features, as present in the real world. In this paper, we formalize the counterfactual image editing task using formal language, modeling the causal relationships between latent generative factors and images through a special type of model called augmented structural causal models (ASCMs). Second, we show two fundamental impossibility results: (1) counterfactual editing is impossible from i.i.d. image samples and their corresponding labels alone; (2) even when the causal relationships between the latent generative factors and images are available, no guarantees regarding the output of the model can be provided. Third, we propose a relaxation for this challenging problem by approximating non-identifiable counterfactual distributions with a new family of counterfactual-consistent estimators. This family exhibits the desirable property of preserving features that the user cares about across both factual and counterfactual worlds. Finally, we develop an efficient algorithm to generate counterfactual images by leveraging neural causal models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [390]
标题:  ViT-MUL: A Baseline Study on Recent Machine Unlearning Methods Applied  to Vision Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09681
作者:  Ikhyun Cho,  Changyeon Park,  Julia Hockenmaier
备注:  7 pages
Abstract:Machine unlearning (MUL) is an arising field in machine learning that seeks to erase the learned information of specific training data points from a trained model. Despite the recent active research in MUL within computer vision, the majority of work has focused on ResNet-based models. Given that Vision Transformers (ViT) have become the predominant model architecture, a detailed study of MUL specifically tailored to ViT is essential. In this paper, we present comprehensive experiments on ViTs using recent MUL algorithms and datasets. We anticipate that our experiments, ablation studies, and findings could provide valuable insights and inspire further research in this field.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [391]
标题:  Pre-Sorted Tsetlin Machine (The Genetic K-Medoid Method)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09680
作者:  Jordan Morris
备注:  6 pages, 12 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:This paper proposes a machine learning pre-sort stage to traditional supervised learning using Tsetlin Machines. Initially, N data-points are identified from the dataset using an expedited genetic algorithm to solve the maximum dispersion problem. These are then used as the initial placement to run the K-Medoid clustering algorithm. Finally, an expedited genetic algorithm is used to align N independent Tsetlin Machines by maximising hamming distance. For MNIST level classification problems, results demonstrate up to 10% improvement in accuracy, approx. 383X reduction in training time and approx. 86X reduction in inference time.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [392]
标题:  Unmasking the Shadows of AI: Investigating Deceptive Capabilities in  Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09676
作者:  Linge Guo
备注:  AI deception, Large Language Models, ChatGPT
Abstract:This research critically navigates the intricate landscape of AI deception, concentrating on deceptive behaviours of Large Language Models (LLMs). My objective is to elucidate this issue, examine the discourse surrounding it, and subsequently delve into its categorization and ramifications. The essay initiates with an evaluation of the AI Safety Summit 2023 (ASS) and introduction of LLMs, emphasising multidimensional biases that underlie their deceptive behaviours.The literature review covers four types of deception categorised: Strategic deception, Imitation, Sycophancy, and Unfaithful Reasoning, along with the social implications and risks they entail. Lastly, I take an evaluative stance on various aspects related to navigating the persistent challenges of the deceptive AI. This encompasses considerations of international collaborative governance, the reconfigured engagement of individuals with AI, proposal of practical adjustments, and specific elements of digital education.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [393]
标题:  Open-Universe Indoor Scene Generation using LLM Program Synthesis and  Uncurated Object Databases
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09675
作者:  Rio Aguina-Kang,  Maxim Gumin,  Do Heon Han,  Stewart Morris,  Seung Jean Yoo,  Aditya Ganeshan,  R. Kenny Jones,  Qiuhong Anna Wei,  Kailiang Fu,  Daniel Ritchie
备注:  See ancillary files for link to supplemental material
Abstract:We present a system for generating indoor scenes in response to text prompts. The prompts are not limited to a fixed vocabulary of scene descriptions, and the objects in generated scenes are not restricted to a fixed set of object categories -- we call this setting indoor scene generation. Unlike most prior work on indoor scene generation, our system does not require a large training dataset of existing 3D scenes. Instead, it leverages the world knowledge encoded in pre-trained large language models (LLMs) to synthesize programs in a domain-specific layout language that describe objects and spatial relations between them. Executing such a program produces a specification of a constraint satisfaction problem, which the system solves using a gradient-based optimization scheme to produce object positions and orientations. To produce object geometry, the system retrieves 3D meshes from a database. Unlike prior work which uses databases of category-annotated, mutually-aligned meshes, we develop a pipeline using vision-language models (VLMs) to retrieve meshes from massive databases of un-annotated, inconsistently-aligned meshes. Experimental evaluations show that our system outperforms generative models trained on 3D data for traditional, closed-universe scene generation tasks; it also outperforms a recent LLM-based layout generation method on open-universe scene generation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [394]
标题:  Navigating the Peril of Generated Alternative Facts: A ChatGPT-4  Fabricated Omega Variant Case as a Cautionary Tale in Medical Misinformation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09674
作者:  Malik Sallam,  Jan Egger,  Rainer Roehrig,  Behrus Puladi
备注:  
Abstract:In an era where artificial intelligence (AI) intertwines with medical research, the delineation of truth becomes increasingly complex. This study ostensibly examines a purported novel SARS-CoV-2 variant, dubbed the Omega variant, showcasing 31 unique mutations in the S gene region. However, the real undercurrent of this narrative is a demonstration of the ease with which AI, specifically ChatGPT-4, can fabricate convincing yet entirely fictional scientific data. The so-called Omega variant was identified in a fully vaccinated, previously infected 35-year-old male presenting with severe COVID-19 symptoms. Through a detailed, albeit artificial, genomic analysis and contact tracing, this study mirrors the rigorous methodology of genuine case reports, thereby setting the stage for a compelling but entirely constructed narrative. The entire case study was generated by ChatGPT-4, a large language model by OpenAI. The fabricated Omega variant features an ensemble of mutations, including N501Y and E484K, known for enhancing ACE2 receptor affinity, alongside L452R and P681H, ostensibly indicative of immune evasion. This variant's contrived interaction dynamics - severe symptoms in a vaccinated individual versus mild ones in unvaccinated contacts - were designed to mimic real-world complexities, including suggestions of antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE). While the Omega variant is a product of AI-generated fiction, the implications of this exercise are real and profound. The ease with which AI can generate believable but false scientific information, as illustrated in this case, raises significant concerns about the potential for misinformation in medicine. This study, therefore, serves as a cautionary tale, emphasizing the necessity for critical evaluation of sources, especially in an age where AI tools like ChatGPT are becoming increasingly sophisticated and widespread in their use.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [395]
标题:  COMPRER: A Multimodal Multi-Objective Pretraining Framework for Enhanced  Medical Image Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09672
作者:  Guy Lutsker,  Hagai Rossman,  Nastya Godiva,  Eran Segal
备注:  
Abstract:Substantial advances in multi-modal Artificial Intelligence (AI) facilitate the combination of diverse medical modalities to achieve holistic health assessments. We present COMPRER , a novel multi-modal, multi-objective pretraining framework which enhances medical-image representation, diagnostic inferences, and prognosis of diseases. COMPRER employs a multi-objective training framework, where each objective introduces distinct knowledge to the model. This includes a multimodal loss that consolidates information across different imaging modalities; A temporal loss that imparts the ability to discern patterns over time; Medical-measure prediction adds appropriate medical insights; Lastly, reconstruction loss ensures the integrity of image structure within the latent space. Despite the concern that multiple objectives could weaken task performance, our findings show that this combination actually boosts outcomes on certain tasks. Here, we apply this framework to both fundus images and carotid ultrasound, and validate our downstream tasks capabilities by predicting both current and future cardiovascular conditions. COMPRER achieved higher Area Under the Curve (AUC) scores in evaluating medical conditions compared to existing models on held-out data. On the Out-of-distribution (OOD) UK-Biobank dataset COMPRER maintains favorable performance over well-established models with more parameters, even though these models were trained on $75\times$ more data than COMPRER. In addition, to better assess our model's performance in contrastive learning, we introduce a novel evaluation metric, providing deeper understanding of the effectiveness of the latent space pairing.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [396]
标题:  CoRaiS: Lightweight Real-Time Scheduler for Multi-Edge Cooperative  Computing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09671
作者:  Yujiao Hu,  Qingmin Jia,  Jinchao Chen,  Yuan Yao,  Yan Pan,  Renchao Xie,  F.Richard Yu
备注:  Under Review
Abstract:Multi-edge cooperative computing that combines constrained resources of multiple edges into a powerful resource pool has the potential to deliver great benefits, such as a tremendous computing power, improved response time, more diversified services. However, the mass heterogeneous resources composition and lack of scheduling strategies make the modeling and cooperating of multi-edge computing system particularly complicated. This paper first proposes a system-level state evaluation model to shield the complex hardware configurations and redefine the different service capabilities at heterogeneous edges. Secondly, an integer linear programming model is designed to cater for optimally dispatching the distributed arriving requests. Finally, a learning-based lightweight real-time scheduler, CoRaiS, is proposed. CoRaiS embeds the real-time states of multi-edge system and requests information, and combines the embeddings with a policy network to schedule the requests, so that the response time of all requests can be minimized. Evaluation results verify that CoRaiS can make a high-quality scheduling decision in real time, and can be generalized to other multi-edge computing system, regardless of system scales. Characteristic validation also demonstrates that CoRaiS successfully learns to balance loads, perceive real-time state and recognize heterogeneity while scheduling.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [397]
标题:  STREAM: Spatio-TempoRal Evaluation and Analysis Metric for Video  Generative Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09669
作者:  Pum Jun Kim,  Seojun Kim,  Jaejun Yoo
备注:  Our work is accepted to ICLR 2024
Abstract:Image generative models have made significant progress in generating realistic and diverse images, supported by comprehensive guidance from various evaluation metrics. However, current video generative models struggle to generate even short video clips, with limited tools that provide insights for improvements. Current video evaluation metrics are simple adaptations of image metrics by switching the embeddings with video embedding networks, which may underestimate the unique characteristics of video. Our analysis reveals that the widely used Frechet Video Distance (FVD) has a stronger emphasis on the spatial aspect than the temporal naturalness of video and is inherently constrained by the input size of the embedding networks used, limiting it to 16 frames. Additionally, it demonstrates considerable instability and diverges from human evaluations. To address the limitations, we propose STREAM, a new video evaluation metric uniquely designed to independently evaluate spatial and temporal aspects. This feature allows comprehensive analysis and evaluation of video generative models from various perspectives, unconstrained by video length. We provide analytical and experimental evidence demonstrating that STREAM provides an effective evaluation tool for both visual and temporal quality of videos, offering insights into area of improvement for video generative models. To the best of our knowledge, STREAM is the first evaluation metric that can separately assess the temporal and spatial aspects of videos. Our code is available at STREAM.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [398]
标题:  Trustworthy Automated Driving through Qualitative Scene Understanding  and Explanations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09668
作者:  Nassim Belmecheri,  Arnaud Gotlieb,  Nadjib Lazaar,  Helge Spieker
备注:  Transport Research Arena (TRA) 2024
Abstract:We present the Qualitative Explainable Graph (QXG): a unified symbolic and qualitative representation for scene understanding in urban mobility. QXG enables the interpretation of an automated vehicle's environment using sensor data and machine learning models. It leverages spatio-temporal graphs and qualitative constraints to extract scene semantics from raw sensor inputs, such as LiDAR and camera data, offering an intelligible scene model. Crucially, QXG can be incrementally constructed in real-time, making it a versatile tool for in-vehicle explanations and real-time decision-making across various sensor types. Our research showcases the transformative potential of QXG, particularly in the context of automated driving, where it elucidates decision rationales by linking the graph with vehicle actions. These explanations serve diverse purposes, from informing passengers and alerting vulnerable road users (VRUs) to enabling post-analysis of prior behaviours.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [399]
标题:  Precision Agriculture: Crop Mapping using Machine Learning and  Sentinel-2 Satellite Imagery
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09651
作者:  Kui Zhao,  Siyang Wu,  Chang Liu,  Yue Wu,  Natalia Efremova
备注:  
Abstract:Food security has grown in significance due to the changing climate and its warming effects. To support the rising demand for agricultural products and to minimize the negative impact of climate change and mass cultivation, precision agriculture has become increasingly important for crop cultivation. This study employs deep learning and pixel-based machine learning methods to accurately segment lavender fields for precision agriculture, utilizing various spectral band combinations extracted from Sentinel-2 satellite imagery. Our fine-tuned final model, a U-Net architecture, can achieve a Dice coefficient of 0.8324. Additionally, our investigation highlights the unexpected efficacy of the pixel-based method and the RGB spectral band combination in this task.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [400]
标题:  On Unsupervised Image-to-image translation and GAN stability
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09646
作者:  BahaaEddin AlAila,  Zahra Jandaghi,  Abolfazl Farahani,  Mohammad Ziad Al-Saad
备注:  
Abstract:The problem of image-to-image translation is one that is intruiging and challenging at the same time, for the impact potential it can have on a wide variety of other computer vision applications like colorization, inpainting, segmentation and others. Given the high-level of sophistication needed to extract patterns from one domain and successfully applying them to another, especially, in a completely unsupervised (unpaired) manner, this problem has gained much attention as of the last few years. It is one of the first problems where successful applications to deep generative models, and especially Generative Adversarial Networks achieved astounding results that are actually of realworld impact, rather than just a show of theoretical prowess; the such that has been dominating the GAN world. In this work, we study some of the failure cases of a seminal work in the field, CycleGAN [1] and hypothesize that they are GAN-stability related, and propose two general models to try to alleviate these problems. We also reach the same conclusion of the problem being ill-posed that has been also circulating in the literature lately.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [401]
标题:  Can a GPT4-Powered AI Agent Be a Good Enough Performance Attribution  Analyst?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10482
作者:  Bruno de Melo
备注:  
Abstract:Performance attribution analysis, defined as the process of explaining the drivers of the excess performance of an investment portfolio against a benchmark, stands as a significant aspect of portfolio management and plays a crucial role in the investment decision-making process, particularly within the fund management industry. Rooted in a solid financial and mathematical framework, the importance and methodologies of this analytical technique are extensively documented across numerous academic research papers and books. The integration of large language models (LLMs) and AI agents marks a groundbreaking development in this field. These agents are designed to automate and enhance the performance attribution analysis by accurately calculating and analyzing portfolio performances against benchmarks. In this study, we introduce the application of an AI Agent for a variety of essential performance attribution tasks, including the analysis of performance drivers and utilizing LLMs as calculation engine for multi-level attribution analysis and question-answer (QA) exercises. Leveraging advanced prompt engineering techniques such as Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and Plan and Solve (PS), and employing a standard agent framework from LangChain, the research achieves promising results: it achieves accuracy rates exceeding 93% in analyzing performance drivers, attains 100% in multi-level attribution calculations, and surpasses 84% accuracy in QA exercises that simulate official examination standards. These findings affirm the impactful role of AI agents, prompt engineering and evaluation in advancing portfolio management processes, highlighting a significant advancement in the practical application and evaluation of AI technologies within the domain.
Subjects: Computational Finance (q-fin.CP); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Portfolio Management (q-fin.PM)

**编号**: [402]
标题:  The Goldilocks Principle of Learning Unitaries by Interlacing Fixed  Operators with Programmable Phase Shifters on a Photonic Chip
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10469
作者:  Kevin Zelaya,  Matthew Markowitz,  Mohammad-Ali Miri
备注:  
Abstract:Programmable photonic integrated circuits represent an emerging technology that amalgamates photonics and electronics, paving the way for light-based information processing at high speeds and low power consumption. Programmable photonics provides a flexible platform that can be reconfigured to perform multiple tasks, thereby holding great promise for revolutionizing future optical networks and quantum computing systems. Over the past decade, there has been constant progress in developing several different architectures for realizing programmable photonic circuits that allow for realizing arbitrary discrete unitary operations with light. Here, we systematically investigate a general family of photonic circuits for realizing arbitrary unitaries based on a simple architecture that interlaces a fixed intervening layer with programmable phase shifter layers. We introduce a criterion for the intervening operator that guarantees the universality of this architecture for representing arbitrary $N \times N$ unitary operators with $N+1$ phase layers. We explore this criterion for different photonic components, including photonic waveguide lattices and meshes of directional couplers, which allows the identification of several families of photonic components that can serve as the intervening layers in the interlacing architecture. Our findings pave the way for efficiently designing and realizing novel families of programmable photonic integrated circuits for multipurpose analog information processing.
Subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [403]
标题:  Evaluation of Quantum and Hybrid Solvers for Combinatorial Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10455
作者:  Amedeo Bertuzzi,  Davide Ferrari,  Antonio Manzalini,  Michele Amoretti
备注:  10 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Academic and industrial sectors have been engaged in a fierce competition to develop quantum technologies, fueled by the explosive advancements in quantum hardware. While universal quantum computers have been shown to support up to hundreds of qubits, the scale of quantum annealers has reached three orders of magnitude (i.e., thousands of qubits). Therefore, quantum algorithms are becoming increasingly popular in a variety of fields, with optimization being one of the most prominent. This work aims to explore the topic of quantum optimization by comprehensively evaluating the technologies provided by D-Wave Systems. To do so, a model for the energy optimization of data centers is proposed as a benchmark. D-Wave quantum and hybrid solvers are compared, in order to identify the most suitable one for the considered application. To highlight its advantageous performance capabilities and associated solving potential, the selected D-Wave hybrid solver is then contrasted with CPLEX, a highly efficient classical solver.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Performance (cs.PF)

**编号**: [404]
标题:  Free Doubly-Infinitary Distributive Categories are Cartesian Closed
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10447
作者:  Fernando Lucatelli Nunes,  Matthijs Vákár
备注:  15 pages
Abstract:We delve into the concept of categories with products that distribute over coproducts, which we call doubly-infinitary distributive categories. We show various instances of doubly-infinitary distributive categories aiming for a comparative analysis with established notions such as extensivity, infinitary distributiveness, and cartesian closedness. Our exploration reveals that this condition represents a substantial extension beyond the classical understanding of infinitary distributive categories. Our main theorem establishes that free doubly-infinitary distributive categories are cartesian closed. We end the paper with remarks on non-canonical isomorphisms, open questions, and future work.
Subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Logic (math.LO)

**编号**: [405]
标题:  Model free collision aggregation for the computation of escape  distributions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10432
作者:  Laetitia Laguzet,  Gabriel Turinici
备注:  
Abstract:Motivated by a heat radiative transport equation, we consider a particle undergoing collisions in a space-time domain and propose a method to sample its escape time, space and direction from the domain. The first step of the procedure is an estimation of how many elementary collisions is safe to take before chances of exiting the domain are too high; then these collisions are aggregated into a single movement. The method does not use any model nor any particular regime of parameters. We give theoretical results both under the normal approximation and without it and test the method on some benchmarks from the literature. The results confirm the theoretical predictions and show that the proposal is an efficient method to sample the escape distribution of the particle.
Subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Probability (math.PR)

**编号**: [406]
标题:  Quantization Avoids Saddle Points in Distributed Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10423
作者:  Yanan Bo,  Yongqiang Wang
备注:  Accepted as a Research Article to Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS)
Abstract:Distributed nonconvex optimization underpins key functionalities of numerous distributed systems, ranging from power systems, smart buildings, cooperative robots, vehicle networks to sensor networks. Recently, it has also merged as a promising solution to handle the enormous growth in data and model sizes in deep learning. A fundamental problem in distributed nonconvex optimization is avoiding convergence to saddle points, which significantly degrade optimization accuracy. We discover that the process of quantization, which is necessary for all digital communications, can be exploited to enable saddle-point avoidance. More specifically, we propose a stochastic quantization scheme and prove that it can effectively escape saddle points and ensure convergence to a second-order stationary point in distributed nonconvex optimization. With an easily adjustable quantization granularity, the approach allows a user to control the number of bits sent per iteration and, hence, to aggressively reduce the communication overhead. Numerical experimental results using distributed optimization and learning problems on benchmark datasets confirm the effectiveness of the approach.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [407]
标题:  Overcoming Distribution Shifts in Plug-and-Play Methods with Test-Time  Training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10374
作者:  Edward P. Chandler,  Shirin Shoushtari,  Jiaming Liu,  M. Salman Asif,  Ulugbek S. Kamilov
备注:  
Abstract:Plug-and-Play Priors (PnP) is a well-known class of methods for solving inverse problems in computational imaging. PnP methods combine physical forward models with learned prior models specified as image denoisers. A common issue with the learned models is that of a performance drop when there is a distribution shift between the training and testing data. Test-time training (TTT) was recently proposed as a general strategy for improving the performance of learned models when training and testing data come from different distributions. In this paper, we propose PnP-TTT as a new method for overcoming distribution shifts in PnP. PnP-TTT uses deep equilibrium learning (DEQ) for optimizing a self-supervised loss at the fixed points of PnP iterations. PnP-TTT can be directly applied on a single test sample to improve the generalization of PnP. We show through simulations that given a sufficient number of measurements, PnP-TTT enables the use of image priors trained on natural images for image reconstruction in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [408]
标题:  Conformal Predictions for Probabilistically Robust Scalable Machine  Learning Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10368
作者:  Alberto Carlevaro,  Teodoro Alamo Cantarero,  Fabrizio Dabbene,  Maurizio Mongelli
备注:  19 pages, 6 figures, journal paper
Abstract:Conformal predictions make it possible to define reliable and robust learning algorithms. But they are essentially a method for evaluating whether an algorithm is good enough to be used in practice. To define a reliable learning framework for classification from the very beginning of its design, the concept of scalable classifier was introduced to generalize the concept of classical classifier by linking it to statistical order theory and probabilistic learning theory. In this paper, we analyze the similarities between scalable classifiers and conformal predictions by introducing a new definition of a score function and defining a special set of input variables, the conformal safety set, which can identify patterns in the input space that satisfy the error coverage guarantee, i.e., that the probability of observing the wrong (possibly unsafe) label for points belonging to this set is bounded by a predefined $\varepsilon$ error level. We demonstrate the practical implications of this framework through an application in cybersecurity for identifying DNS tunneling attacks. Our work contributes to the development of probabilistically robust and reliable machine learning models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [409]
标题:  CPGA: Coding Priors-Guided Aggregation Network for Compressed Video  Quality Enhancement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10362
作者:  Qiang Zhu,  Jinhua Hao,  Yukang Ding,  Yu Liu,  Qiao Mo,  Ming Sun,  Chao Zhou,  Shuyuan Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, numerous approaches have achieved notable success in compressed video quality enhancement (VQE). However, these methods usually ignore the utilization of valuable coding priors inherently embedded in compressed videos, such as motion vectors and residual frames, which carry abundant temporal and spatial information. To remedy this problem, we propose the Coding Priors-Guided Aggregation (CPGA) network to utilize temporal and spatial information from coding priors. The CPGA mainly consists of an inter-frame temporal aggregation (ITA) module and a multi-scale non-local aggregation (MNA) module. Specifically, the ITA module aggregates temporal information from consecutive frames and coding priors, while the MNA module globally captures spatial information guided by residual frames. In addition, to facilitate research in VQE task, we newly construct the Video Coding Priors (VCP) dataset, comprising 300 videos with various coding priors extracted from corresponding bitstreams. It remedies the shortage of previous datasets on the lack of coding information. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our method compared to existing state-of-the-art methods. The code and dataset will be released at this https URL.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [410]
标题:  GradNav: Accelerated Exploration of Potential Energy Surfaces with  Gradient-Based Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10358
作者:  Janghoon Ock,  Parisa Mollaei,  Amir Barati Farimani
备注:  
Abstract:The exploration of molecular systems' potential energy surface is important for comprehending their complex behaviors, particularly through identifying various metastable states. However, the transition between these states is often hindered by substantial energy barriers, demanding prolonged molecular simulations that consume considerable computational efforts. Our study introduces the GradNav algorithm, which enhances the exploration of the energy surface, accelerating the reconstruction of the potential energy surface (PES). This algorithm employs a strategy of initiating short simulation runs from updated starting points, derived from prior observations, to effectively navigate across potential barriers and explore new regions. To evaluate GradNav's performance, we introduce two metrics: the deepest well escape frame (DWEF) and the search success initialization ratio (SSIR). Through applications on Langevin dynamics within Mueller-type potential energy surfaces and molecular dynamics simulations of the Fs-Peptide protein, these metrics demonstrate GradNav's enhanced ability to escape deep energy wells, as shown by reduced DWEF values, and its reduced reliance on initial conditions, highlighted by increased SSIR values. Consequently, this improved exploration capability enables more precise energy estimations from simulation trajectories.
Subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [411]
标题:  End-to-end Adaptive Dynamic Subsampling and Reconstruction for Cardiac  MRI
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10346
作者:  George Yiasemis,  Jan-Jakob Sonke,  Jonas Teuwen
备注:  14 pages, 5 figures, 8 tables
Abstract:Accelerating dynamic MRI is essential for enhancing clinical applications, such as adaptive radiotherapy, and improving patient comfort. Traditional deep learning (DL) approaches for accelerated dynamic MRI reconstruction typically rely on predefined or random subsampling patterns, applied uniformly across all temporal phases. This standard practice overlooks the potential benefits of leveraging temporal correlations and lacks the adaptability required for case-specific subsampling optimization, which holds the potential for maximizing reconstruction quality. Addressing this gap, we present a novel end-to-end framework for adaptive dynamic MRI subsampling and reconstruction. Our pipeline integrates a DL-based adaptive sampler, generating case-specific dynamic subsampling patterns, trained end-to-end with a state-of-the-art 2D dynamic reconstruction network, namely vSHARP, which effectively reconstructs the adaptive dynamic subsampled data into a moving image. Our method is assessed using dynamic cine cardiac MRI data, comparing its performance against vSHARP models that employ common subsampling trajectories, and pipelines trained to optimize dataset-specific sampling schemes alongside vSHARP reconstruction. Our results indicate superior reconstruction quality, particularly at high accelerations.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)

**编号**: [412]
标题:  Multi-Source Localization and Data Association for Time-Difference of  Arrival Measurements
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10329
作者:  Gabrielle Flood,  Filip Elvander
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we consider the problem of localizing multiple signal sources based on time-difference of arrival (TDOA) measurements. In the blind setting, in which the source signals are not known, the localization task is challenging due to the data association problem. That is, it is not known which of the TDOA measurements correspond to the same source. Herein, we propose to perform joint localization and data association by means of an optimal transport formulation. The method operates by finding optimal groupings of TDOA measurements and associating these with candidate source locations. To allow for computationally feasible localization in three-dimensional space, an efficient set of candidate locations is constructed using a minimal multilateration solver based on minimal sets of receiver pairs. In numerical simulations, we demonstrate that the proposed method is robust both to measurement noise and TDOA detection errors. Furthermore, it is shown that the data association provided by the proposed method allows for statistically efficient estimates of the source locations.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [413]
标题:  A General Non-Strict Finsler's Lemma
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10306
作者:  T.J. Meijer,  K.J.A. Scheres,  S. van den Eijnden,  T. Holicki,  C.W. Scherer,  W.P.M.H. Heemels
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present a general non-strict Finsler's lemma. This result is general in the sense that it does not impose any restrictions on the involved matrices and, thereby, is more broadly applicable than existing non-strict versions of Finsler's lemma that do impose such restrictions. In fact, we show that this new non-strict formulation generalizes both the original strict Finsler's lemma as well as an existing non-strict version. To further illustrate its usefulness, we showcase applications of the non-strict Finsler's lemma in deriving a closed-form solution to the non-strict projection lemma, and a matrix Finsler's lemma, which is useful for data-driven control.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [414]
标题:  Rough Transformers for Continuous and Efficient Time-Series Modelling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10288
作者:  Fernando Moreno-Pino,  Álvaro Arroyo,  Harrison Waldon,  Xiaowen Dong,  Álvaro Cartea
备注:  
Abstract:Time-series data in real-world medical settings typically exhibit long-range dependencies and are observed at non-uniform intervals. In such contexts, traditional sequence-based recurrent models struggle. To overcome this, researchers replace recurrent architectures with Neural ODE-based models to model irregularly sampled data and use Transformer-based architectures to account for long-range dependencies. Despite the success of these two approaches, both incur very high computational costs for input sequences of moderate lengths and greater. To mitigate this, we introduce the Rough Transformer, a variation of the Transformer model which operates on continuous-time representations of input sequences and incurs significantly reduced computational costs, critical for addressing long-range dependencies common in medical contexts. In particular, we propose multi-view signature attention, which uses path signatures to augment vanilla attention and to capture both local and global dependencies in input data, while remaining robust to changes in the sequence length and sampling frequency. We find that Rough Transformers consistently outperform their vanilla attention counterparts while obtaining the benefits of Neural ODE-based models using a fraction of the computational time and memory resources on synthetic and real-world time-series tasks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [415]
标题:  The long-term and disparate impact of job loss on individual mobility  behaviour
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10276
作者:  Simone Centellegher,  Marco De Nadai,  Marco Tonin,  Bruno Lepri,  Lorenzo Lucchini
备注:  
Abstract:In today's interconnected world of widespread mobility, ubiquitous social interaction, and rapid information dissemination, the demand for individuals to swiftly adapt their behaviors has increased dramatically. Timely decision-making faces new challenges due to the necessity of using finely temporal-resolved anonymised individual data to keep up with fast-paced behavioural changes. To tackle this issue, we propose a general framework that leverages privacy-enhanced GPS data from mobile devices alongside census information to infer the employment status of individuals over time. By analysing the mobility patterns of employed and unemployed individuals, we unveil significant differences in behaviours between the two groups, showing a contraction in visited locations and a general decline in the exploratory behaviour of unemployed individuals. Remarkably, these differences intensify over time since job loss, particularly affecting individuals from more vulnerable demographic groups. These findings highlight the importance of early monitoring of unemployed individuals who may face enduring levels of distress. Overall, our findings shed light on the dynamics of employment-related behaviour, emphasizing the importance of implementing timely interventions to support the unemployed and vulnerable populations.
Subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [416]
标题:  Discrete functional inequalities on lattice graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10270
作者:  Shubham Gupta
备注:  PhD thesis, Imperial College London, 140 pages
Abstract:In this thesis, we study problems at the interface of analysis and discrete mathematics. We discuss analogues of well known Hardy-type inequalities and Rearrangement inequalities on the lattice graphs $\mathbb{Z}^d$, with a particular focus on behaviour of sharp constants and this http URL the first half of the thesis, we analyse Hardy inequalities on $\mathbb{Z}^d$, first for $d=1$ and then for $d \geq 3$. We prove a sharp weighted Hardy inequality on integers with power weights of the form $n^\alpha$. This is done via two different methods, namely super-solution and Fourier method. We also use Fourier method to prove a weighted Hardy type inequality for higher order operators. After discussing the one dimensional case, we study the Hardy inequality in higher dimensions ($d \geq 3$). In particular, we compute the asymptotic behaviour of the sharp constant in the discrete Hardy inequality, as $d \rightarrow \infty$. This is done by converting the inequality into a continuous Hardy-type inequality on a torus for functions having zero average. These continuous inequalities are new and interesting in themselves. In the second half, we focus our attention on analogues of Rearrangement inequalities on lattice graphs. We begin by analysing the situation in dimension one. We define various notions of rearrangements and prove the corresponding Polya-Szegő inequality. These inequalities are also applied to prove some weighted Hardy inequalities on integers. Finally, we study Rearrangement inequalities (Polya-Szegő) on general graphs, with a particular focus on lattice graphs $\mathbb{Z}^d$, for $d \geq 2$. We develop a framework to study these inequalities, using which we derive concrete results in dimension two. In particular, these results develop connections between Polya-Szegő inequality and various isoperimetric inequalities on graphs.
Subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)

**编号**: [417]
标题:  Interpretable Machine Learning for Survival Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10250
作者:  Sophie Hanna Langbein,  Mateusz Krzyziński,  Mikołaj Spytek,  Hubert Baniecki,  Przemysław Biecek,  Marvin N. Wright
备注:  
Abstract:With the spread and rapid advancement of black box machine learning models, the field of interpretable machine learning (IML) or explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) has become increasingly important over the last decade. This is particularly relevant for survival analysis, where the adoption of IML techniques promotes transparency, accountability and fairness in sensitive areas, such as clinical decision making processes, the development of targeted therapies, interventions or in other medical or healthcare related contexts. More specifically, explainability can uncover a survival model's potential biases and limitations and provide more mathematically sound ways to understand how and which features are influential for prediction or constitute risk factors. However, the lack of readily available IML methods may have deterred medical practitioners and policy makers in public health from leveraging the full potential of machine learning for predicting time-to-event data. We present a comprehensive review of the limited existing amount of work on IML methods for survival analysis within the context of the general IML taxonomy. In addition, we formally detail how commonly used IML methods, such as such as individual conditional expectation (ICE), partial dependence plots (PDP), accumulated local effects (ALE), different feature importance measures or Friedman's H-interaction statistics can be adapted to survival outcomes. An application of several IML methods to real data on data on under-5 year mortality of Ghanaian children from the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) Program serves as a tutorial or guide for researchers, on how to utilize the techniques in practice to facilitate understanding of model decisions or predictions.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [418]
标题:  A Data-Driven Approach for Mitigating Dark Current Noise and Bad Pixels  in Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor Cameras for Space-based Telescopes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10206
作者:  Peng Jia,  Chao Lv,  Yushan Li,  Yongyang Sun,  Shu Niu,  Zhuoxiao Wang
备注:  Accepted by the AJ, comments are welcome. The complete code could be downloaded from: DOI: 10.12149/101387
Abstract:In recent years, there has been a gradual increase in the performance of Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) cameras. These cameras have gained popularity as a viable alternative to charge-coupled device (CCD) cameras in a wide range of applications. One particular application is the CMOS camera installed in small space telescopes. However, the limited power and spatial resources available on satellites present challenges in maintaining ideal observation conditions, including temperature and radiation environment. Consequently, images captured by CMOS cameras are susceptible to issues such as dark current noise and defective pixels. In this paper, we introduce a data-driven framework for mitigating dark current noise and bad pixels for CMOS cameras. Our approach involves two key steps: pixel clustering and function fitting. During pixel clustering step, we identify and group pixels exhibiting similar dark current noise properties. Subsequently, in the function fitting step, we formulate functions that capture the relationship between dark current and temperature, as dictated by the Arrhenius law. Our framework leverages ground-based test data to establish distinct temperature-dark current relations for pixels within different clusters. The cluster results could then be utilized to estimate the dark current noise level and detect bad pixels from real observational data. To assess the effectiveness of our approach, we have conducted tests using real observation data obtained from the Yangwang-1 satellite, equipped with a near-ultraviolet telescope and an optical telescope. The results show a considerable improvement in the detection efficiency of space-based telescopes.
Subjects: Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)

**编号**: [419]
标题:  Learning on JPEG-LDPC Compressed Images: Classifying with Syndromes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10202
作者:  Ahcen Aliouat,  Elsa Dupraz
备注:  5 pages, 3 figures, conference paper, submitted to the EUSIPCO 2024 Conference
Abstract:In goal-oriented communications, the objective of the receiver is often to apply a Deep-Learning model, rather than reconstructing the original data. In this context, direct learning over compressed data, without any prior decoding, holds promise for enhancing the time-efficient execution of inference models at the receiver. However, conventional entropic-coding methods like Huffman and Arithmetic break data structure, rendering them unsuitable for learning without decoding. In this paper, we propose an alternative approach in which entropic coding is realized with Low-Density Parity Check (LDPC) codes. We hypothesize that Deep Learning models can more effectively exploit the internal code structure of LDPC codes. At the receiver, we leverage a specific class of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), specifically Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU), trained for image classification. Our numerical results indicate that classification based on LDPC-coded bit-planes surpasses Huffman and Arithmetic coding, while necessitating a significantly smaller learning model. This demonstrates the efficiency of classification directly from LDPC-coded data, eliminating the need for any form of decompression, even partial, prior to applying the learning model.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Information Theory (cs.IT); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [420]
标题:  Cardiac valve event timing in echocardiography using deep learning and  triplane recordings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10156
作者:  Benjamin Strandli Fermann,  John Nyberg,  Espen W. Remme,  Jahn Frederik Grue,  Helén Grue,  Roger Håland,  Lasse Lovstakken,  Håvard Dalen,  Bjørnar Grenne,  Svein Arne Aase,  Sten Roar Snar,  Andreas Østvik
备注:  To be published in IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics. 10 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Cardiac valve event timing plays a crucial role when conducting clinical measurements using echocardiography. However, established automated approaches are limited by the need of external electrocardiogram sensors, and manual measurements often rely on timing from different cardiac cycles. Recent methods have applied deep learning to cardiac timing, but they have mainly been restricted to only detecting two key time points, namely end-diastole (ED) and end-systole (ES). In this work, we propose a deep learning approach that leverages triplane recordings to enhance detection of valve events in echocardiography. Our method demonstrates improved performance detecting six different events, including valve events conventionally associated with ED and ES. Of all events, we achieve an average absolute frame difference (aFD) of maximum 1.4 frames (29 ms) for start of diastasis, down to 0.6 frames (12 ms) for mitral valve opening when performing a ten-fold cross-validation with test splits on triplane data from 240 patients. On an external independent test consisting of apical long-axis data from 180 other patients, the worst performing event detection had an aFD of 1.8 (30 ms). The proposed approach has the potential to significantly impact clinical practice by enabling more accurate, rapid and comprehensive event detection, leading to improved clinical measurements.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [421]
标题:  Response Style Characterization for Repeated Measures Using the Visual  Analogue Scale
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10136
作者:  Shunsuke Minusa,  Tadayuki Matsumura,  Kanako Esaki,  Yang Shao,  Chihiro Yoshimura,  Hiroyuki Mizuno
备注:  13 pages, 7 figures, submitted to IEEE Access
Abstract:Self-report measures (e.g., Likert scales) are widely used to evaluate subjective health perceptions. Recently, the visual analog scale (VAS), a slider-based scale, has become popular owing to its ability to precisely and easily assess how people feel. These data can be influenced by the response style (RS), a user-dependent systematic tendency that occurs regardless of questionnaire instructions. Despite its importance, especially in between-individual analysis, little attention has been paid to handling the RS in the VAS (denoted as response profile (RP)), as it is mainly used for within-individual monitoring and is less affected by RP. However, VAS measurements often require repeated self-reports of the same questionnaire items, making it difficult to apply conventional methods on a Likert scale. In this study, we developed a novel RP characterization method for various types of repeatedly measured VAS data. This approach involves the modeling of RP as distributional parameters ${\theta}$ through a mixture of RS-like distributions, and addressing the issue of unbalanced data through bootstrap sampling for treating repeated measures. We assessed the effectiveness of the proposed method using simulated pseudo-data and an actual dataset from an empirical study. The assessment of parameter recovery showed that our method accurately estimated the RP parameter ${\theta}$, demonstrating its robustness. Moreover, applying our method to an actual VAS dataset revealed the presence of individual RP heterogeneity, even in repeated VAS measurements, similar to the findings of the Likert scale. Our proposed method enables RP heterogeneity-aware VAS data analysis, similar to Likert-scale data analysis.
Subjects: Methodology (stat.ME); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [422]
标题:  PQDynamicISP: Dynamically Controlled Image Signal Processor for Any  Image Sensors Pursuing Perceptual Quality
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10091
作者:  Masakazu Yoshimura,  Junji Otsuka,  Takeshi Ohashi
备注:  Keywords: image signal processor, ISP, image enhancement, tone mapping
Abstract:Full DNN-based image signal processors (ISPs) have been actively studied and have achieved superior image quality compared to conventional ISPs. In contrast to this trend, we propose a lightweight ISP that consists of simple conventional ISP functions but achieves high image quality by increasing expressiveness. Specifically, instead of tuning the parameters of the ISP, we propose to control them dynamically for each environment and even locally. As a result, state-of-the-art accuracy is achieved on various datasets, including other tasks like tone mapping and image enhancement, even though ours is lighter than DNN-based ISPs. Additionally, our method can process different image sensors with a single ISP through dynamic control, whereas conventional methods require training for each sensor.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [423]
标题:  A Structure-Preserving Kernel Method for Learning Hamiltonian Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10070
作者:  Jianyu Hu,  Juan-Pablo Ortega,  Daiying Yin
备注:  
Abstract:A structure-preserving kernel ridge regression method is presented that allows the recovery of potentially high-dimensional and nonlinear Hamiltonian functions out of datasets made of noisy observations of Hamiltonian vector fields. The method proposes a closed-form solution that yields excellent numerical performances that surpass other techniques proposed in the literature in this setup. From the methodological point of view, the paper extends kernel regression methods to problems in which loss functions involving linear functions of gradients are required and, in particular, a differential reproducing property and a Representer Theorem are proved in this context. The relation between the structure-preserving kernel estimator and the Gaussian posterior mean estimator is analyzed. A full error analysis is conducted that provides convergence rates using fixed and adaptive regularization parameters. The good performance of the proposed estimator is illustrated with various numerical experiments.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)

**编号**: [424]
标题:  Hybrid Convolutional and Attention Network for Hyperspectral Image  Denoising
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10067
作者:  Shuai Hu,  Feng Gao,  Xiaowei Zhou,  Junyu Dong,  Qian Du
备注:  IEEE GRSL 2024
Abstract:Hyperspectral image (HSI) denoising is critical for the effective analysis and interpretation of hyperspectral data. However, simultaneously modeling global and local features is rarely explored to enhance HSI denoising. In this letter, we propose a hybrid convolution and attention network (HCANet), which leverages both the strengths of convolution neural networks (CNNs) and Transformers. To enhance the modeling of both global and local features, we have devised a convolution and attention fusion module aimed at capturing long-range dependencies and neighborhood spectral correlations. Furthermore, to improve multi-scale information aggregation, we design a multi-scale feed-forward network to enhance denoising performance by extracting features at different scales. Experimental results on mainstream HSI datasets demonstrate the rationality and effectiveness of the proposed HCANet. The proposed model is effective in removing various types of complex noise. Our codes are available at \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [425]
标题:  Progressive Divide-and-Conquer via Subsampling Decomposition for  Accelerated MRI
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10064
作者:  Chong Wang,  Lanqing Guo,  Yufei Wang,  Hao Cheng,  Yi Yu,  Bihan Wen
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:Deep unfolding networks (DUN) have emerged as a popular iterative framework for accelerated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) reconstruction. However, conventional DUN aims to reconstruct all the missing information within the entire null space in each iteration. Thus it could be challenging when dealing with highly ill-posed degradation, usually leading to unsatisfactory reconstruction. In this work, we propose a Progressive Divide-And-Conquer (PDAC) strategy, aiming to break down the subsampling process in the actual severe degradation and thus perform reconstruction sequentially. Starting from decomposing the original maximum-a-posteriori problem of accelerated MRI, we present a rigorous derivation of the proposed PDAC framework, which could be further unfolded into an end-to-end trainable network. Specifically, each iterative stage in PDAC focuses on recovering a distinct moderate degradation according to the decomposition. Furthermore, as part of the PDAC iteration, such decomposition is adaptively learned as an auxiliary task through a degradation predictor which provides an estimation of the decomposed sampling mask. Following this prediction, the sampling mask is further integrated via a severity conditioning module to ensure awareness of the degradation severity at each stage. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed method achieves superior performance on the publicly available fastMRI and Stanford2D FSE datasets in both multi-coil and single-coil settings.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [426]
标题:  Accurate and Data-Efficient Micro-XRD Phase Identification Using  Multi-Task Learning: Application to Hydrothermal Fluids
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10042
作者:  Yanfei Li,  Juejing Liu,  Xiaodong Zhao,  Wenjun Liu,  Tong Geng,  Ang Li,  Xin Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Traditional analysis of highly distorted micro-X-ray diffraction ({\mu}-XRD) patterns from hydrothermal fluid environments is a time-consuming process, often requiring substantial data preprocessing and labeled experimental data. This study demonstrates the potential of deep learning with a multitask learning (MTL) architecture to overcome these limitations. We trained MTL models to identify phase information in {\mu}-XRD patterns, minimizing the need for labeled experimental data and masking preprocessing steps. Notably, MTL models showed superior accuracy compared to binary classification CNNs. Additionally, introducing a tailored cross-entropy loss function improved MTL model performance. Most significantly, MTL models tuned to analyze raw and unmasked XRD patterns achieved close performance to models analyzing preprocessed data, with minimal accuracy differences. This work indicates that advanced deep learning architectures like MTL can automate arduous data handling tasks, streamline the analysis of distorted XRD patterns, and reduce the reliance on labor-intensive experimental datasets.
Subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [427]
标题:  Histo-Genomic Knowledge Distillation For Cancer Prognosis From  Histopathology Whole Slide Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10040
作者:  Zhikang Wang,  Yumeng Zhang,  Yingxue Xu,  Seiya Imoto,  Hao Chen,  Jiangning Song
备注:  
Abstract:Histo-genomic multi-modal methods have recently emerged as a powerful paradigm, demonstrating significant potential for improving cancer prognosis. However, genome sequencing, unlike histopathology imaging, is still not widely accessible in underdeveloped regions, limiting the application of these multi-modal approaches in clinical settings. To address this, we propose a novel Genome-informed Hyper-Attention Network, termed G-HANet, which is capable of effectively distilling the histo-genomic knowledge during training to elevate uni-modal whole slide image (WSI)-based inference for the first time. Compared with traditional knowledge distillation methods (i.e., teacher-student architecture) in other tasks, our end-to-end model is superior in terms of training efficiency and learning cross-modal interactions. Specifically, the network comprises the cross-modal associating branch (CAB) and hyper-attention survival branch (HSB). Through the genomic data reconstruction from WSIs, CAB effectively distills the associations between functional genotypes and morphological phenotypes and offers insights into the gene expression profiles in the feature space. Subsequently, HSB leverages the distilled histo-genomic associations as well as the generated morphology-based weights to achieve the hyper-attention modeling of the patients from both histopathology and genomic perspectives to improve cancer prognosis. Extensive experiments are conducted on five TCGA benchmarking datasets and the results demonstrate that G-HANet significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art WSI-based methods and achieves competitive performance with genome-based and multi-modal methods. G-HANet is expected to be explored as a useful tool by the research community to address the current bottleneck of insufficient histo-genomic data pairing in the context of cancer prognosis and precision oncology.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [428]
标题:  Quantum Circuits for partial differential equations via  Schrödingerisation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10032
作者:  Junpeng Hu,  Shi Jin,  Nana Liu,  Lei Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Quantum computing has emerged as a promising avenue for achieving significant speedup, particularly in large-scale PDE simulations, compared to classical computing. One of the main quantum approaches involves utilizing Hamiltonian simulation, which is directly applicable only to Schrödinger-type equations. To address this limitation, Schrödingerisation techniques have been developed, employing the warped transformation to convert general linear PDEs into Schrödinger-type equations. However, despite the development of Schrödingerisation techniques, the explicit implementation of the corresponding quantum circuit for solving general PDEs remains to be designed. In this paper, we present detailed implementation of a quantum algorithm for general PDEs using Schrödingerisation techniques. We provide examples of the heat equation, and the advection equation approximated by the upwind scheme, to demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. Complexity analysis is also carried out to demonstrate the quantum advantages of these algorithms in high dimensions over their classical counterparts.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [429]
标题:  Cardiac Magnetic Resonance 2D+T Short- and Long-axis Segmentation via  Spatio-temporal SAM Adaptation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10009
作者:  Zhennong Chen,  Sekeun Kim,  Hui Ren,  Quanzheng Li,  Xiang Li
备注:  10 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Accurate 2D+T myocardium segmentation in cine cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) scans is essential to analyze LV motion throughout the cardiac cycle comprehensively. The Segment Anything Model (SAM), known for its accurate segmentation and zero-shot generalization, has not yet been tailored for CMR 2D+T segmentation. We therefore introduce CMR2D+T-SAM, a novel approach to adapt SAM for CMR 2D+T segmentation using spatio-temporal adaption. This approach also incorporates a U-Net framework for multi-scale feature extraction, as well as text prompts for accurate segmentation on both short-axis (SAX) and long-axis (LAX) views using a single model. CMR2D+T-SAM outperforms existing deep learning methods on the STACOM2011 dataset, achieving a myocardium Dice score of 0.885 and a Hausdorff distance (HD) of 2.900 pixels. It also demonstrates superior zero-shot generalization on the ACDC dataset with a Dice score of 0.840 and a HD of 4.076 pixels.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [430]
标题:  Boundary Constraint-free Biomechanical Model-Based Surface Matching for  Intraoperative Liver Deformation Correction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09964
作者:  Zixin Yang,  Richard Simon,  Kelly Merrell,  Cristian. A. Linte
备注:  
Abstract:In image-guided liver surgery, 3D-3D non-rigid registration methods play a crucial role in estimating the mapping between the preoperative model and the intraoperative surface represented as point clouds, addressing the challenge of tissue deformation. Typically, these methods incorporate a biomechanical model, represented as a finite element model (FEM), used to regularize a surface matching term. This paper introduces a novel 3D-3D non-rigid registration method. In contrast to the preceding techniques, our method uniquely incorporates the FEM within the surface matching term itself, ensuring that the estimated deformation maintains geometric consistency throughout the registration process. Additionally, we eliminate the need to determine zero-boundary conditions and applied force locations in the FEM. We achieve this by integrating soft springs into the stiffness matrix and allowing forces to be distributed across the entire liver surface. To further improve robustness, we introduce a regularization technique focused on the gradient of the force magnitudes. This regularization imposes spatial smoothness and helps prevent the overfitting of irregular noise in intraoperative data. Optimization is achieved through an accelerated proximal gradient algorithm, further enhanced by our proposed method for determining the optimal step size. Our method is evaluated and compared to both a learning-based method and a traditional method that features FEM regularization using data collected on our custom-developed phantom, as well as two publicly available datasets. Our method consistently outperforms or is comparable to the baseline techniques. Both the code and dataset will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [431]
标题:  Thermal Earth Model for the Conterminous United States Using an  Interpolative Physics-Informed Graph Neural Network (InterPIGNN)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09961
作者:  Mohammad J. Aljubran,  Roland N. Horne
备注:  The thermal Earth model is made available as feature layers on ArcGIS at this https URL
Abstract:This study presents a data-driven spatial interpolation algorithm based on physics-informed graph neural networks used to develop national temperature-at-depth maps for the conterminous United States. The model was trained to approximately satisfy the three-dimensional heat conduction law by simultaneously predicting subsurface temperature, surface heat flow, and rock thermal conductivity. In addition to bottomhole temperature measurements, we incorporated other physical quantities as model inputs, such as depth, geographic coordinates, elevation, sediment thickness, magnetic anomaly, gravity anomaly, gamma-ray flux of radioactive elements, seismicity, and electric conductivity. We constructed surface heat flow, and temperature and thermal conductivity predictions for depths of 0-7 km at an interval of 1 km with spatial resolution of 18 km$^2$ per grid cell. Our model showed superior temperature, surface heat flow and thermal conductivity mean absolute errors of 4.8° C, 5.817 mW/m$^2$ and 0.022 W/(C-m)$, respectively. The predictions were visualized in two-dimensional spatial maps across the modeled depths. This thorough modeling of the Earth's thermal processes is crucial to understanding subsurface phenomena and exploiting natural underground resources.
Subjects: Geophysics (physics.geo-ph); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [432]
标题:  Decentralizing Coherent Joint Transmission Precoding via Deterministic  Equivalents
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09958
作者:  Yuhao Liu,  Xinyu Bian,  Yizhou Xu,  Tianqi Hou,  Wenjie Wang,  Yuyi Mao,  Jun Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:In order to control the inter-cell interference for a multi-cell multi-user multiple-input multiple-output network, we consider the precoder design for coordinated multi-point with downlink coherent joint transmission. To avoid costly information exchange among the cooperating base stations in a centralized precoding scheme, we propose a decentralized one by considering the power minimization problem. By approximating the inter-cell interference using the deterministic equivalents, this problem is decoupled to sub-problems which are solved in a decentralized manner at different base stations. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed decentralized precoding scheme, where only 2 ~ 7% more transmit power is needed compared with the optimal centralized precoder.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [433]
标题:  Attention-Enhanced Hybrid Feature Aggregation Network for 3D Brain Tumor  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09942
作者:  Ziya Ata Yazıcı,  İlkay Öksüz,  Hazım Kemal Ekenel
备注:  Accepted at 9th BrainLes Workshop (BraTS 2023 Challenge) @ International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI) 2023
Abstract:Glioblastoma is a highly aggressive and malignant brain tumor type that requires early diagnosis and prompt intervention. Due to its heterogeneity in appearance, developing automated detection approaches is challenging. To address this challenge, Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven approaches in healthcare have generated interest in efficiently diagnosing and evaluating brain tumors. The Brain Tumor Segmentation Challenge (BraTS) is a platform for developing and assessing automated techniques for tumor analysis using high-quality, clinically acquired MRI data. In our approach, we utilized a multi-scale, attention-guided and hybrid U-Net-shaped model -- GLIMS -- to perform 3D brain tumor segmentation in three regions: Enhancing Tumor (ET), Tumor Core (TC), and Whole Tumor (WT). The multi-scale feature extraction provides better contextual feature aggregation in high resolutions and the Swin Transformer blocks improve the global feature extraction at deeper levels of the model. The segmentation mask generation in the decoder branch is guided by the attention-refined features gathered from the encoder branch to enhance the important attributes. Moreover, hierarchical supervision is used to train the model efficiently. Our model's performance on the validation set resulted in 92.19, 87.75, and 83.18 Dice Scores and 89.09, 84.67, and 82.15 Lesion-wise Dice Scores in WT, TC, and ET, respectively. The code is publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [434]
标题:  Bicausal optimal transport for SDEs with irregular coefficients
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09941
作者:  Benjamin A. Robinson,  Michaela Szölgyenyi
备注:  41 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:We solve constrained optimal transport problems between the laws of solutions of stochastic differential equations (SDEs). We consider SDEs with irregular coefficients, making only minimal regularity assumptions. We show that the so-called synchronous coupling is optimal among bicausal couplings, that is couplings that respect the flow of information encoded in the stochastic processes. Our results provide a method to numerically compute the adapted Wasserstein distance between laws of SDEs with irregular coefficients. Moreover, we introduce a transformation-based semi-implicit numerical scheme and establish the first strong convergence result for SDEs with exponentially growing and discontinuous drift.
Subjects: Probability (math.PR); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [435]
标题:  Fregean Flows
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09921
作者:  Eric Easthope
备注:  
Abstract:I humbly introduce a concept I call "Fregean flows," a graph theoretic representation of classical logic, to show how higher-dimensional graph characteristics might be useful to prove or perhaps at best show the provability of simple deductive statements typically represented as one-dimensional strings of characters. I apply these to a very simple proof, namely proving the equivalence of two definitions for an Abelian group G, an if-and-only-if statement, using a re-representation of statements as vertices and both conjunctions and implications as differently coloured edges. This re-representation of an if-and-only-if is simple but shows unexpected geometry, and I discuss its possible utility in terms of provability through ideas of graph topology, similarities of graph contraction to deductive elimination, and recursion.
Subjects: Logic (math.LO); Graphics (cs.GR); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [436]
标题:  Mind the GAP: Improving Robustness to Subpopulation Shifts with  Group-Aware Priors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09869
作者:  Tim G. J. Rudner,  Ya Shi Zhang,  Andrew Gordon Wilson,  Julia Kempe
备注:  Published in Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS 2024)
Abstract:Machine learning models often perform poorly under subpopulation shifts in the data distribution. Developing methods that allow machine learning models to better generalize to such shifts is crucial for safe deployment in real-world settings. In this paper, we develop a family of group-aware prior (GAP) distributions over neural network parameters that explicitly favor models that generalize well under subpopulation shifts. We design a simple group-aware prior that only requires access to a small set of data with group information and demonstrate that training with this prior yields state-of-the-art performance -- even when only retraining the final layer of a previously trained non-robust model. Group aware-priors are conceptually simple, complementary to existing approaches, such as attribute pseudo labeling and data reweighting, and open up promising new avenues for harnessing Bayesian inference to enable robustness to subpopulation shifts.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [437]
标题:  Implementation of Parallel Process Execution in the Next Generation  System Analysis Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09848
作者:  Harish Gadey,  Lucas Vander Wal,  Robert Joseph
备注:  Presented at the '2024 Waste Management Symposia'
Abstract:The United States DOE Office of Integrated Waste Management program is planning for the transportation, storage, and eventual disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste from nuclear power plant sites across the United States. The Next Generation System Analysis Model is an agent-based simulation toolkit that is used for system level simulation and analysis of the SNF inventory in the United States. This tool was developed as part of a collaborative effort between Argonne National Laboratory and Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The analyst using NGSAM has the ability to define several factors like the number of storage facilities, capacity at each facility, transportation schedules, shipment rates, and other conditions. The primary purpose of NGSAM is to provide the system analyst with the tools to model the integrated waste management system and gain insights on waste management alternatives, impact of storage choices, generating cost estimates, and developing an integrated approach with emphasis on flexibility.
Subjects: Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [438]
标题:  Forecasting Geoffective Events from Solar Wind Data and Evaluating the  Most Predictive Features through Machine Learning Approaches
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09847
作者:  Sabrina Guastavino,  Katsiaryna Bahamazava,  Emma Perracchione,  Fabiana Camattari,  Gianluca Audone,  Daniele Telloni,  Roberto Susino,  Gianalfredo Nicolini,  Silvano Fineschi,  Michele Piana,  Anna Maria Massone
备注:  
Abstract:This study addresses the prediction of geomagnetic disturbances by exploiting machine learning techniques. Specifically, the Long-Short Term Memory recurrent neural network, which is particularly suited for application over long time series, is employed in the analysis of in-situ measurements of solar wind plasma and magnetic field acquired over more than one solar cycle, from $2005$ to $2019$, at the Lagrangian point L$1$. The problem is approached as a binary classification aiming to predict one hour in advance a decrease in the SYM-H geomagnetic activity index below the threshold of $-50$ nT, which is generally regarded as indicative of magnetospheric perturbations. The strong class imbalance issue is tackled by using an appropriate loss function tailored to optimize appropriate skill scores in the training phase of the neural network. Beside classical skill scores, value-weighted skill scores are then employed to evaluate predictions, suitable in the study of problems, such as the one faced here, characterized by strong temporal variability. For the first time, the content of magnetic helicity and energy carried by solar transients, associated with their detection and likelihood of geo-effectiveness, were considered as input features of the network architecture. Their predictive capabilities are demonstrated through a correlation-driven feature selection method to rank the most relevant characteristics involved in the neural network prediction model. The optimal performance of the adopted neural network in properly forecasting the onset of geomagnetic storms, which is a crucial point for giving real warnings in an operational setting, is finally showed.
Subjects: Space Physics (physics.space-ph); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [439]
标题:  Empowering Healthcare through Privacy-Preserving MRI Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09836
作者:  Al Amin,  Kamrul Hasan,  Saleh Zein-Sabatto,  Deo Chimba,  Liang Hong,  Imtiaz Ahmed,  Tariqul Islam
备注:  6
Abstract:In the healthcare domain, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) assumes a pivotal role, as it employs Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) methodologies to extract invaluable insights from imaging data. Nonetheless, the imperative need for patient privacy poses significant challenges when collecting data from diverse healthcare sources. Consequently, the Deep Learning (DL) communities occasionally face difficulties detecting rare features. In this research endeavor, we introduce the Ensemble-Based Federated Learning (EBFL) Framework, an innovative solution tailored to address this challenge. The EBFL framework deviates from the conventional approach by emphasizing model features over sharing sensitive patient data. This unique methodology fosters a collaborative and privacy-conscious environment for healthcare institutions, empowering them to harness the capabilities of a centralized server for model refinement while upholding the utmost data privacy standards.Conversely, a robust ensemble architecture boasts potent feature extraction capabilities, distinguishing itself from a single DL model. This quality makes it remarkably dependable for MRI analysis. By harnessing our groundbreaking EBFL methodology, we have achieved remarkable precision in the classification of brain tumors, including glioma, meningioma, pituitary, and non-tumor instances, attaining a precision rate of 94% for the Global model and an impressive 96% for the Ensemble model. Our models underwent rigorous evaluation using conventional performance metrics such as Accuracy, Precision, Recall, and F1 Score. Integrating DL within the Federated Learning (FL) framework has yielded a methodology that offers precise and dependable diagnostics for detecting brain tumors.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [440]
标题:  Analyzing Data Augmentation for Medical Images: A Case Study in  Ultrasound Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09828
作者:  Adam Tupper,  Christian Gagné
备注:  For associated code, see this https URL
Abstract:Data augmentation is one of the most effective techniques to improve the generalization performance of deep neural networks. Yet, despite often facing limited data availability in medical image analysis, it is frequently underutilized. This appears to be due to a gap in our collective understanding of the efficacy of different augmentation techniques across medical imaging tasks and modalities. One domain where this is especially true is breast ultrasound images. This work addresses this issue by analyzing the effectiveness of different augmentation techniques for the classification of breast lesions in ultrasound images. We assess the generalizability of our findings across several datasets, demonstrate that certain augmentations are far more effective than others, and show that their usage leads to significant performance gains.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [441]
标题:  FastSAM3D: An Efficient Segment Anything Model for 3D Volumetric Medical  Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09827
作者:  Yiqing Shen,  Jingxing Li,  Xinyuan Shao,  Blanca Inigo Romillo,  Ankush Jindal,  David Dreizin,  Mathias Unberath
备注:  
Abstract:Segment anything models (SAMs) are gaining attention for their zero-shot generalization capability in segmenting objects of unseen classes and in unseen domains when properly prompted. Interactivity is a key strength of SAMs, allowing users to iteratively provide prompts that specify objects of interest to refine outputs. However, to realize the interactive use of SAMs for 3D medical imaging tasks, rapid inference times are necessary. High memory requirements and long processing delays remain constraints that hinder the adoption of SAMs for this purpose. Specifically, while 2D SAMs applied to 3D volumes contend with repetitive computation to process all slices independently, 3D SAMs suffer from an exponential increase in model parameters and FLOPS. To address these challenges, we present FastSAM3D which accelerates SAM inference to 8 milliseconds per 128*128*128 3D volumetric image on an NVIDIA A100 GPU. This speedup is accomplished through 1) a novel layer-wise progressive distillation scheme that enables knowledge transfer from a complex 12-layer ViT-B to a lightweight 6-layer ViT-Tiny variant encoder without training from scratch; and 2) a novel 3D sparse flash attention to replace vanilla attention operators, substantially reducing memory needs and improving parallelization. Experiments on three diverse datasets reveal that FastSAM3D achieves a remarkable speedup of 527.38x compared to 2D SAMs and 8.75x compared to 3D SAMs on the same volumes without significant performance decline. Thus, FastSAM3D opens the door for low-cost truly interactive SAM-based 3D medical imaging segmentation with commonly used GPU hardware. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [442]
标题:  Adapting OC20-trained EquiformerV2 Models for High-Entropy Materials
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09811
作者:  Christian M. Clausen,  Jan Rossmeisl,  Zachary W. Ulissi
备注:  
Abstract:Computational high-throughput studies, especially in research on high-entropy materials and catalysts, are hampered by high-dimensional composition spaces and myriad structural microstates. They present bottlenecks to the conventional use of density functional theory calculations, and consequently, the use of machine-learned potentials is becoming increasingly prevalent in atomic structure simulations. In this communication, we show the results of adjusting and fine-tuning the pretrained EquiformerV2 model from the Open Catalyst Project to infer adsorption energies of *OH and *O on the out-of-domain high-entropy alloy Ag-Ir-Pd-Pt-Ru. By applying an energy filter based on the local environment of the binding site the zero-shot inference is markedly improved and through few-shot fine-tuning the model yields state-of-the-art accuracy. It is also found that EquiformerV2, assuming the role of general machine learning potential, is able to inform a smaller, more focused direct inference model. This knowledge distillation setup boosts performance on complex binding sites. Collectively, this shows that foundational knowledge learned from ordered intermetallic structures, can be extrapolated to the highly disordered structures of solid-solutions. With the vastly accelerated computational throughput of these models, hitherto infeasible research in the high-entropy material space is now readily accessible.
Subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)

**编号**: [443]
标题:  Audiosockets: A Python socket package for Real-Time Audio Processing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09789
作者:  Nicolas Shu,  David V. Anderson
备注:  4 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:There are many packages in Python which allow one to perform real-time processing on audio data. Unfortunately, due to the synchronous nature of the language, there lacks a framework which allows for distributed parallel processing of the data without requiring a large programming overhead and in which the data acquisition is not blocked by subsequent processing operations. This work improves on packages used for audio data collection with a light-weight backend and a simple interface that allows for distributed processing through a socket-based structure. This is intended for real-time audio machine learning and data processing in Python with a quick deployment of multiple parallel operations on the same data, allowing users to spend less time debugging and more time developing.
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Sound (cs.SD)

**编号**: [444]
标题:  Existence and uniqueness for the solutions of non-autonomous stochastic  differential algebraic equations with locally Lipschitz coefficients
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09778
作者:  Oana Silvia Serea,  Antoine Tambue,  Guy Tsafack
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we study the well-posedness and regularity of non-autonomous stochastic differential algebraic equations (SDAEs) with nonlinear, locally Lipschitz and monotone (2) coefficients of the form (1). The main difficulty is the fact that the operator A(.) is non-autonomous, i.~e. depends on t and the matrix $A(t)$ is singular for all $t\in \left[0,T\right]$. Our interest is in SDAE of index-1. This means that in order to solve the problem, we can transform the initial SDAEs into an ordinary stochastic differential equation with algebraic constraints. Under appropriate hypothesizes, the main result establishes the existence and uniqueness of the solution in $\mathcal{M}^p(\left[0, T\right], \mathbb{R}^n)$, $p\geq 2$, $p\in \mathbb{N}$. Several strong estimations and regularity results are also provided. Note that, in this paper, we use various techniques such as Itô's lemma, Burkholder-Davis-Gundy inequality, and Young inequality.
Subjects: Probability (math.PR); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [445]
标题:  Reconstructing Blood Flow in Data-Poor Regimes: A Vasculature Network  Kernel for Gaussian Process Regression
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09758
作者:  Shaghayegh Z. Ashtiani,  Mohammad Sarabian,  Kaveh Laksari,  Hessam Babaee
备注:  20 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Blood flow reconstruction in the vasculature is important for many clinical applications. However, in clinical settings, the available data are often quite limited. For instance, Transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) is a noninvasive clinical tool that is commonly used in the clinical settings to measure blood velocity waveform at several locations on brain's vasculature. This amount of data is grossly insufficient for training machine learning surrogate models, such as deep neural networks or Gaussian process regression. In this work, we propose a Gaussian process regression approach based on physics-informed kernels, enabling near-real-time reconstruction of blood flow in data-poor regimes. We introduce a novel methodology to reconstruct the kernel within the vascular network, which is a non-Euclidean space. The proposed kernel encodes both spatiotemporal and vessel-to-vessel correlations, thus enabling blood flow reconstruction in vessels that lack direct measurements. We demonstrate that any prediction made with the proposed kernel satisfies the conservation of mass principle. The kernel is constructed by running stochastic one-dimensional blood flow simulations, where the stochasticity captures the epistemic uncertainties, such as lack of knowledge about boundary conditions and uncertainties in vasculature geometries. We demonstrate the performance of the model on three test cases, namely, a simple Y-shaped bifurcation, abdominal aorta, and the Circle of Willis in the brain.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [446]
标题:  Estimating the history of a random recursive tree
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09755
作者:  Simon Briend,  Christophe Giraud,  Gábor Lugosi,  Déborah Sulem
备注:  
Abstract:This paper studies the problem of estimating the order of arrival of the vertices in a random recursive tree. Specifically, we study two fundamental models: the uniform attachment model and the linear preferential attachment model. We propose an order estimator based on the Jordan centrality measure and define a family of risk measures to quantify the quality of the ordering procedure. Moreover, we establish a minimax lower bound for this problem, and prove that the proposed estimator is nearly optimal. Finally, we numerically demonstrate that the proposed estimator outperforms degree-based and spectral ordering procedures.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [447]
标题:  On the Theory of Quantum and Towards Practical Computation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09682
作者:  Robert Kudelić
备注:  
Abstract:Quantum computing exposes the brilliance of quantum mechanics through computer science and, as such, gives oneself a marvelous and exhilarating journey to go through. This article leads along that journey with a historical and current outlook on quantum computation that is geared toward computer experts but also to experts from other disciplines as well. It is an article that will bridge the vast gap between classical and quantum computation and open an entering wedge through which one will be able to both bring himself up to speed on quantum computation and, intrinsically, in a straightforward manner, become acquainted with it. We are indeed in luck to be living in an age where computing is being reinvented, and not only seeing history in the making firsthand but, in fact, having the opportunity to be the ones who are reinventing--and that is quite a thought.
Subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)

**编号**: [448]
标题:  FoldToken: Learning Protein Language via Vector Quantization and Beyond
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09673
作者:  Zhangyang Gao,  Cheng Tan,  Jue Wang,  Yufei Huang,  Lirong Wu,  Stan Z. Li
备注:  
Abstract:Is there a foreign language describing protein sequences and structures simultaneously? Protein structures, represented by continuous 3D points, have long posed a challenge due to the contrasting modeling paradigms of discrete sequences. We introduce \textbf{FoldTokenizer} to represent protein sequence-structure as discrete symbols. This innovative approach involves projecting residue types and structures into a discrete space, guided by a reconstruction loss for information preservation. We refer to the learned discrete symbols as \textbf{FoldToken}, and the sequence of FoldTokens serves as a new protein language, transforming the protein sequence-structure into a unified modality. We apply the created protein language on general backbone inpainting and antibody design tasks, building the first GPT-style model (\textbf{FoldGPT}) for sequence-structure co-generation with promising results. Key to our success is the substantial enhancement of the vector quantization module, Soft Conditional Vector Quantization (\textbf{SoftCVQ}).
Subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

