**编号**: [1]
标题:  Exploring Pre-trained Text-to-Video Diffusion Models for Referring Video  Object Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12042
作者:  Zixin Zhu,  Xuelu Feng,  Dongdong Chen,  Junsong Yuan,  Chunming Qiao,  Gang Hua
备注:  The code will be available at \url{this https URL}
Abstract:In this paper, we explore the visual representations produced from a pre-trained text-to-video (T2V) diffusion model for video understanding tasks. We hypothesize that the latent representation learned from a pretrained generative T2V model encapsulates rich semantics and coherent temporal correspondences, thereby naturally facilitating video understanding. Our hypothesis is validated through the classic referring video object segmentation (R-VOS) task. We introduce a novel framework, termed ``VD-IT'', tailored with dedicatedly designed components built upon a fixed pretrained T2V model. Specifically, VD-IT uses textual information as a conditional input, ensuring semantic consistency across time for precise temporal instance matching. It further incorporates image tokens as supplementary textual inputs, enriching the feature set to generate detailed and nuanced masks.Besides, instead of using the standard Gaussian noise, we propose to predict the video-specific noise with an extra noise prediction module, which can help preserve the feature fidelity and elevates segmentation quality. Through extensive experiments, we surprisingly observe that fixed generative T2V diffusion models, unlike commonly used video backbones (e.g., Video Swin Transformer) pretrained with discriminative image/video pre-tasks, exhibit better potential to maintain semantic alignment and temporal consistency. On existing standard benchmarks, our VD-IT achieves highly competitive results, surpassing many existing state-of-the-art methods. The code will be available at \url{this https URL}
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [2]
标题:  Distilling Datasets Into Less Than One Image
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12040
作者:  Asaf Shul,  Eliahu Horwitz,  Yedid Hoshen
备注:  
Abstract:Dataset distillation aims to compress a dataset into a much smaller one so that a model trained on the distilled dataset achieves high accuracy. Current methods frame this as maximizing the distilled classification accuracy for a budget of K distilled images-per-class, where K is a positive integer. In this paper, we push the boundaries of dataset distillation, compressing the dataset into less than an image-per-class. It is important to realize that the meaningful quantity is not the number of distilled images-per-class but the number of distilled pixels-per-dataset. We therefore, propose Poster Dataset Distillation (PoDD), a new approach that distills the entire original dataset into a single poster. The poster approach motivates new technical solutions for creating training images and learnable labels. Our method can achieve comparable or better performance with less than an image-per-class compared to existing methods that use one image-per-class. Specifically, our method establishes a new state-of-the-art performance on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and CUB200 using as little as 0.3 images-per-class.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [3]
标题:  StereoNavNet: Learning to Navigate using Stereo Cameras with Auxiliary  Occupancy Voxels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12039
作者:  Hongyu Li,  Taskin Padir,  Huaizu Jiang
备注:  
Abstract:Visual navigation has received significant attention recently. Most of the prior works focus on predicting navigation actions based on semantic features extracted from visual encoders. However, these approaches often rely on large datasets and exhibit limited generalizability. In contrast, our approach draws inspiration from traditional navigation planners that operate on geometric representations, such as occupancy maps. We propose StereoNavNet (SNN), a novel visual navigation approach employing a modular learning framework comprising perception and policy modules. Within the perception module, we estimate an auxiliary 3D voxel occupancy grid from stereo RGB images and extract geometric features from it. These features, along with user-defined goals, are utilized by the policy module to predict navigation actions. Through extensive empirical evaluation, we demonstrate that SNN outperforms baseline approaches in terms of success rates, success weighted by path length, and navigation error. Furthermore, SNN exhibits better generalizability, characterized by maintaining leading performance when navigating across previously unseen environments.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [4]
标题:  Zero-Shot Image Feature Consensus with Deep Functional Maps
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12038
作者:  Xinle Cheng,  Congyue Deng,  Adam Harley,  Yixin Zhu,  Leonidas Guibas
备注:  
Abstract:Correspondences emerge from large-scale vision models trained for generative and discriminative tasks. This has been revealed and benchmarked by computing correspondence maps between pairs of images, using nearest neighbors on the feature grids. Existing work has attempted to improve the quality of these correspondence maps by carefully mixing features from different sources, such as by combining the features of different layers or networks. We point out that a better correspondence strategy is available, which directly imposes structure on the correspondence field: the functional map. Wielding this simple mathematical tool, we lift the correspondence problem from the pixel space to the function space and directly optimize for mappings that are globally coherent. We demonstrate that our technique yields correspondences that are not only smoother but also more accurate, with the possibility of better reflecting the knowledge embedded in the large-scale vision models that we are studying. Our approach sets a new state-of-the-art on various dense correspondence tasks. We also demonstrate our effectiveness in keypoint correspondence and affordance map transfer.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [5]
标题:  MineDreamer: Learning to Follow Instructions via Chain-of-Imagination  for Simulated-World Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12037
作者:  Enshen Zhou,  Yiran Qin,  Zhenfei Yin,  Yuzhou Huang,  Ruimao Zhang,  Lu Sheng,  Yu Qiao,  Jing Shao
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:It is a long-lasting goal to design a generalist-embodied agent that can follow diverse instructions in human-like ways. However, existing approaches often fail to steadily follow instructions due to difficulties in understanding abstract and sequential natural language instructions. To this end, we introduce MineDreamer, an open-ended embodied agent built upon the challenging Minecraft simulator with an innovative paradigm that enhances instruction-following ability in low-level control signal generation. Specifically, MineDreamer is developed on top of recent advances in Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) and diffusion models, and we employ a Chain-of-Imagination (CoI) mechanism to envision the step-by-step process of executing instructions and translating imaginations into more precise visual prompts tailored to the current state; subsequently, the agent generates keyboard-and-mouse actions to efficiently achieve these imaginations, steadily following the instructions at each step. Extensive experiments demonstrate that MineDreamer follows single and multi-step instructions steadily, significantly outperforming the best generalist agent baseline and nearly doubling its performance. Moreover, qualitative analysis of the agent's imaginative ability reveals its generalization and comprehension of the open world.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [6]
标题:  One-Step Image Translation with Text-to-Image Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12036
作者:  Gaurav Parmar,  Taesung Park,  Srinivasa Narasimhan,  Jun-Yan Zhu
备注:  Github: this https URL
Abstract:In this work, we address two limitations of existing conditional diffusion models: their slow inference speed due to the iterative denoising process and their reliance on paired data for model fine-tuning. To tackle these issues, we introduce a general method for adapting a single-step diffusion model to new tasks and domains through adversarial learning objectives. Specifically, we consolidate various modules of the vanilla latent diffusion model into a single end-to-end generator network with small trainable weights, enhancing its ability to preserve the input image structure while reducing overfitting. We demonstrate that, for unpaired settings, our model CycleGAN-Turbo outperforms existing GAN-based and diffusion-based methods for various scene translation tasks, such as day-to-night conversion and adding/removing weather effects like fog, snow, and rain. We extend our method to paired settings, where our model pix2pix-Turbo is on par with recent works like Control-Net for Sketch2Photo and Edge2Image, but with a single-step inference. This work suggests that single-step diffusion models can serve as strong backbones for a range of GAN learning objectives. Our code and models are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [7]
标题:  CoCoCo: Improving Text-Guided Video Inpainting for Better Consistency,  Controllability and Compatibility
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12035
作者:  Bojia Zi,  Shihao Zhao,  Xianbiao Qi,  Jianan Wang,  Yukai Shi,  Qianyu Chen,  Bin Liang,  Kam-Fai Wong,  Lei Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in video generation have been remarkable, yet many existing methods struggle with issues of consistency and poor text-video alignment. Moreover, the field lacks effective techniques for text-guided video inpainting, a stark contrast to the well-explored domain of text-guided image inpainting. To this end, this paper proposes a novel text-guided video inpainting model that achieves better consistency, controllability and compatibility. Specifically, we introduce a simple but efficient motion capture module to preserve motion consistency, and design an instance-aware region selection instead of a random region selection to obtain better textual controllability, and utilize a novel strategy to inject some personalized models into our CoCoCo model and thus obtain better model compatibility. Extensive experiments show that our model can generate high-quality video clips. Meanwhile, our model shows better motion consistency, textual controllability and model compatibility. More details are shown in [this http URL](this http URL).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [8]
标题:  VFusion3D: Learning Scalable 3D Generative Models from Video Diffusion  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12034
作者:  Junlin Han,  Filippos Kokkinos,  Philip Torr
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:This paper presents a novel paradigm for building scalable 3D generative models utilizing pre-trained video diffusion models. The primary obstacle in developing foundation 3D generative models is the limited availability of 3D data. Unlike images, texts, or videos, 3D data are not readily accessible and are difficult to acquire. This results in a significant disparity in scale compared to the vast quantities of other types of data. To address this issue, we propose using a video diffusion model, trained with extensive volumes of text, images, and videos, as a knowledge source for 3D data. By unlocking its multi-view generative capabilities through fine-tuning, we generate a large-scale synthetic multi-view dataset to train a feed-forward 3D generative model. The proposed model, VFusion3D, trained on nearly 3M synthetic multi-view data, can generate a 3D asset from a single image in seconds and achieves superior performance when compared to current SOTA feed-forward 3D generative models, with users preferring our results over 70% of the time.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [9]
标题:  HiKER-SGG: Hierarchical Knowledge Enhanced Robust Scene Graph Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12033
作者:  Ce Zhang,  Simon Stepputtis,  Joseph Campbell,  Katia Sycara,  Yaqi Xie
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024. Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Being able to understand visual scenes is a precursor for many downstream tasks, including autonomous driving, robotics, and other vision-based approaches. A common approach enabling the ability to reason over visual data is Scene Graph Generation (SGG); however, many existing approaches assume undisturbed vision, i.e., the absence of real-world corruptions such as fog, snow, smoke, as well as non-uniform perturbations like sun glare or water drops. In this work, we propose a novel SGG benchmark containing procedurally generated weather corruptions and other transformations over the Visual Genome dataset. Further, we introduce a corresponding approach, Hierarchical Knowledge Enhanced Robust Scene Graph Generation (HiKER-SGG), providing a strong baseline for scene graph generation under such challenging setting. At its core, HiKER-SGG utilizes a hierarchical knowledge graph in order to refine its predictions from coarse initial estimates to detailed predictions. In our extensive experiments, we show that HiKER-SGG does not only demonstrate superior performance on corrupted images in a zero-shot manner, but also outperforms current state-of-the-art methods on uncorrupted SGG tasks. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [10]
标题:  Generic 3D Diffusion Adapter Using Controlled Multi-View Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12032
作者:  Hansheng Chen,  Ruoxi Shi,  Yulin Liu,  Bokui Shen,  Jiayuan Gu,  Gordon Wetzstein,  Hao Su,  Leonidas Guibas
备注:  V2 note: Fix missing acknowledgements. Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Open-domain 3D object synthesis has been lagging behind image synthesis due to limited data and higher computational complexity. To bridge this gap, recent works have investigated multi-view diffusion but often fall short in either 3D consistency, visual quality, or efficiency. This paper proposes MVEdit, which functions as a 3D counterpart of SDEdit, employing ancestral sampling to jointly denoise multi-view images and output high-quality textured meshes. Built on off-the-shelf 2D diffusion models, MVEdit achieves 3D consistency through a training-free 3D Adapter, which lifts the 2D views of the last timestep into a coherent 3D representation, then conditions the 2D views of the next timestep using rendered views, without uncompromising visual quality. With an inference time of only 2-5 minutes, this framework achieves better trade-off between quality and speed than score distillation. MVEdit is highly versatile and extendable, with a wide range of applications including text/image-to-3D generation, 3D-to-3D editing, and high-quality texture synthesis. In particular, evaluations demonstrate state-of-the-art performance in both image-to-3D and text-guided texture generation tasks. Additionally, we introduce a method for fine-tuning 2D latent diffusion models on small 3D datasets with limited resources, enabling fast low-resolution text-to-3D initialization.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [11]
标题:  ROUTERBENCH: A Benchmark for Multi-LLM Routing System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12031
作者:  Qitian Jason Hu,  Jacob Bieker,  Xiuyu Li,  Nan Jiang,  Benjamin Keigwin,  Gaurav Ranganath,  Kurt Keutzer,  Shriyash Kaustubh Upadhyay
备注:  
Abstract:As the range of applications for Large Language Models (LLMs) continues to grow, the demand for effective serving solutions becomes increasingly critical. Despite the versatility of LLMs, no single model can optimally address all tasks and applications, particularly when balancing performance with cost. This limitation has led to the development of LLM routing systems, which combine the strengths of various models to overcome the constraints of individual LLMs. Yet, the absence of a standardized benchmark for evaluating the performance of LLM routers hinders progress in this area. To bridge this gap, we present ROUTERBENCH, a novel evaluation framework designed to systematically assess the efficacy of LLM routing systems, along with a comprehensive dataset comprising over 405k inference outcomes from representative LLMs to support the development of routing strategies. We further propose a theoretical framework for LLM routing, and deliver a comparative analysis of various routing approaches through ROUTERBENCH, highlighting their potentials and limitations within our evaluation framework. This work not only formalizes and advances the development of LLM routing systems but also sets a standard for their assessment, paving the way for more accessible and economically viable LLM deployments. The code and data are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [12]
标题:  Expandable Subspace Ensemble for Pre-Trained Model-Based  Class-Incremental Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12030
作者:  Da-Wei Zhou,  Hai-Long Sun,  Han-Jia Ye,  De-Chuan Zhan
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024. Code is available at: this https URL
Abstract:Class-Incremental Learning (CIL) requires a learning system to continually learn new classes without forgetting. Despite the strong performance of Pre-Trained Models (PTMs) in CIL, a critical issue persists: learning new classes often results in the overwriting of old ones. Excessive modification of the network causes forgetting, while minimal adjustments lead to an inadequate fit for new classes. As a result, it is desired to figure out a way of efficient model updating without harming former knowledge. In this paper, we propose ExpAndable Subspace Ensemble (EASE) for PTM-based CIL. To enable model updating without conflict, we train a distinct lightweight adapter module for each new task, aiming to create task-specific subspaces. These adapters span a high-dimensional feature space, enabling joint decision-making across multiple subspaces. As data evolves, the expanding subspaces render the old class classifiers incompatible with new-stage spaces. Correspondingly, we design a semantic-guided prototype complement strategy that synthesizes old classes' new features without using any old class instance. Extensive experiments on seven benchmark datasets verify EASE's state-of-the-art performance. Code is available at: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [13]
标题:  Align and Distill: Unifying and Improving Domain Adaptive Object  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12029
作者:  Justin Kay,  Timm Haucke,  Suzanne Stathatos,  Siqi Deng,  Erik Young,  Pietro Perona,  Sara Beery,  Grant Van Horn
备注:  30 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:Object detectors often perform poorly on data that differs from their training set. Domain adaptive object detection (DAOD) methods have recently demonstrated strong results on addressing this challenge. Unfortunately, we identify systemic benchmarking pitfalls that call past results into question and hamper further progress: (a) Overestimation of performance due to underpowered baselines, (b) Inconsistent implementation practices preventing transparent comparisons of methods, and (c) Lack of generality due to outdated backbones and lack of diversity in benchmarks. We address these problems by introducing: (1) A unified benchmarking and implementation framework, Align and Distill (ALDI), enabling comparison of DAOD methods and supporting future development, (2) A fair and modern training and evaluation protocol for DAOD that addresses benchmarking pitfalls, (3) A new DAOD benchmark dataset, CFC-DAOD, enabling evaluation on diverse real-world data, and (4) A new method, ALDI++, that achieves state-of-the-art results by a large margin. ALDI++ outperforms the previous state-of-the-art by +3.5 AP50 on Cityscapes to Foggy Cityscapes, +5.7 AP50 on Sim10k to Cityscapes (where ours is the only method to outperform a fair baseline), and +2.0 AP50 on CFC Kenai to Channel. Our framework, dataset, and state-of-the-art method offer a critical reset for DAOD and provide a strong foundation for future research. Code and data are available: this https URL and this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [14]
标题:  Ultraman: Single Image 3D Human Reconstruction with Ultra Speed and  Detail
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12028
作者:  Mingjin Chen,  Junhao Chen,  Xiaojun Ye,  Huan-ang Gao,  Xiaoxue Chen,  Zhaoxin Fan,  Hao Zhao
备注:  Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:3D human body reconstruction has been a challenge in the field of computer vision. Previous methods are often time-consuming and difficult to capture the detailed appearance of the human body. In this paper, we propose a new method called \emph{Ultraman} for fast reconstruction of textured 3D human models from a single image. Compared to existing techniques, \emph{Ultraman} greatly improves the reconstruction speed and accuracy while preserving high-quality texture details. We present a set of new frameworks for human reconstruction consisting of three parts, geometric reconstruction, texture generation and texture mapping. Firstly, a mesh reconstruction framework is used, which accurately extracts 3D human shapes from a single image. At the same time, we propose a method to generate a multi-view consistent image of the human body based on a single image. This is finally combined with a novel texture mapping method to optimize texture details and ensure color consistency during reconstruction. Through extensive experiments and evaluations, we demonstrate the superior performance of \emph{Ultraman} on various standard datasets. In addition, \emph{Ultraman} outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of human rendering quality and speed. Upon acceptance of the article, we will make the code and data publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [15]
标题:  From Pixels to Insights: A Survey on Automatic Chart Understanding in  the Era of Large Foundation Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12027
作者:  Kung-Hsiang Huang,  Hou Pong Chan,  Yi R. Fung,  Haoyi Qiu,  Mingyang Zhou,  Shafiq Joty,  Shih-Fu Chang,  Heng Ji
备注:  
Abstract:Data visualization in the form of charts plays a pivotal role in data analysis, offering critical insights and aiding in informed decision-making. Automatic chart understanding has witnessed significant advancements with the rise of large foundation models in recent years. Foundation models, such as large language models (LLMs), have revolutionized various natural language processing (NLP) tasks and are increasingly being applied to chart understanding tasks. This survey paper provides a comprehensive overview of the recent developments, challenges, and future directions in chart understanding within the context of these foundation models. The paper begins by defining chart understanding, outlining problem formulations, and discussing fundamental building blocks crucial for studying chart understanding tasks. In the section on tasks and datasets, we explore various tasks within chart understanding and discuss their evaluation metrics and sources of both charts and textual inputs. Modeling strategies are then examined, encompassing both classification-based and generation-based approaches, along with tool augmentation techniques that enhance chart understanding performance. Furthermore, we discuss the state-of-the-art performance of each task and discuss how we can improve the performance. Challenges and future directions are addressed in a dedicated section, highlighting issues such as domain-specific charts, lack of efforts in evaluation, and agent-oriented settings. This survey paper serves to provide valuable insights and directions for future research in chart understanding leveraging large foundation models. The studies mentioned in this paper, along with emerging new research, will be continually updated at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [16]
标题:  FlexCap: Generating Rich, Localized, and Flexible Captions in Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12026
作者:  Debidatta Dwibedi,  Vidhi Jain,  Jonathan Tompson,  Andrew Zisserman,  Yusuf Aytar
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce a versatile $\textit{flexible-captioning}$ vision-language model (VLM) capable of generating region-specific descriptions of varying lengths. The model, FlexCap, is trained to produce length-conditioned captions for input bounding boxes, and this allows control over the information density of its output, with descriptions ranging from concise object labels to detailed captions. To achieve this we create large-scale training datasets of image region descriptions of varying length, starting from captioned images. This flexible-captioning capability has several valuable applications. First, FlexCap demonstrates superior performance in dense captioning tasks on the Visual Genome dataset. Second, a visual question answering (VQA) system can be built by employing FlexCap to generate localized descriptions as inputs to a large language model. The resulting system achieves state-of-the-art zero-shot performance on a number of VQA datasets. We also demonstrate a $\textit{localize-then-describe}$ approach with FlexCap can be better at open-ended object detection than a $\textit{describe-then-localize}$ approach with other VLMs. We highlight a novel characteristic of FlexCap, which is its ability to extract diverse visual information through prefix conditioning. Finally, we qualitatively demonstrate FlexCap's broad applicability in tasks such as image labeling, object attribute recognition, and visual dialog. Project webpage: this https URL .
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [17]
标题:  A Toolbox for Surfacing Health Equity Harms and Biases in Large Language  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12025
作者:  Stephen R. Pfohl,  Heather Cole-Lewis,  Rory Sayres,  Darlene Neal,  Mercy Asiedu,  Awa Dieng,  Nenad Tomasev,  Qazi Mamunur Rashid,  Shekoofeh Azizi,  Negar Rostamzadeh,  Liam G. McCoy,  Leo Anthony Celi,  Yun Liu,  Mike Schaekermann,  Alanna Walton,  Alicia Parrish,  Chirag Nagpal,  Preeti Singh,  Akeiylah Dewitt,  Philip Mansfield,  Sushant Prakash,  Katherine Heller,  Alan Karthikesalingam,  Christopher Semturs,  Joelle Barral,  Greg Corrado,  Yossi Matias,  Jamila Smith-Loud,  Ivor Horn,  Karan Singhal
备注:  
Abstract:Large language models (LLMs) hold immense promise to serve complex health information needs but also have the potential to introduce harm and exacerbate health disparities. Reliably evaluating equity-related model failures is a critical step toward developing systems that promote health equity. In this work, we present resources and methodologies for surfacing biases with potential to precipitate equity-related harms in long-form, LLM-generated answers to medical questions and then conduct an empirical case study with Med-PaLM 2, resulting in the largest human evaluation study in this area to date. Our contributions include a multifactorial framework for human assessment of LLM-generated answers for biases, and EquityMedQA, a collection of seven newly-released datasets comprising both manually-curated and LLM-generated questions enriched for adversarial queries. Both our human assessment framework and dataset design process are grounded in an iterative participatory approach and review of possible biases in Med-PaLM 2 answers to adversarial queries. Through our empirical study, we find that the use of a collection of datasets curated through a variety of methodologies, coupled with a thorough evaluation protocol that leverages multiple assessment rubric designs and diverse rater groups, surfaces biases that may be missed via narrower evaluation approaches. Our experience underscores the importance of using diverse assessment methodologies and involving raters of varying backgrounds and expertise. We emphasize that while our framework can identify specific forms of bias, it is not sufficient to holistically assess whether the deployment of an AI system promotes equitable health outcomes. We hope the broader community leverages and builds on these tools and methods towards realizing a shared goal of LLMs that promote accessible and equitable healthcare for all.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [18]
标题:  Enhancing Hokkien Dual Translation by Exploring and Standardizing of  Four Writing Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12024
作者:  Bo-Han Lu,  Yi-Hsuan Lin,  En-Shiun Annie Lee,  Richard Tzong-Han Tsai
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Machine translation focuses mainly on high-resource languages (HRLs), while low-resource languages (LRLs) like Taiwanese Hokkien are relatively under-explored. This study aims to address this gap by developing a dual translation model between Taiwanese Hokkien and both Traditional Mandarin Chinese and English. We employ a pre-trained LLaMA2-7B model specialized in Traditional Mandarin Chinese to leverage the orthographic similarities between Taiwanese Hokkien Han and Traditional Mandarin Chinese. Our comprehensive experiments involve translation tasks across various writing systems of Taiwanese Hokkien and between Taiwanese Hokkien and other HRLs. We find that the use of a limited monolingual corpus also further improve the model's Taiwanese Hokkien capabilities. We then utilize our translation model to standardize all Taiwanese Hokkien writing systems into Hokkien Han, resulting in further performance improvements. Additionally, we introduce an evaluation method incorporating back-translation and GPT-4 to ensure reliable translation quality assessment even for LRLs. The study contributes to narrowing the resource gap for Taiwanese Hokkien and empirically investigates the advantages and limitations of pre-training and fine-tuning based on LLaMA 2.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [19]
标题:  Aligning Learning with Communication in Shared Autonomy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12023
作者:  Joshua Hoegerman,  Shahabedin Sagheb,  Benjamin A. Christie,  Dylan P. Losey
备注:  7 pages, under review for IROS 2024
Abstract:Assistive robot arms can help humans by partially automating their desired tasks. Consider an adult with motor impairments controlling an assistive robot arm to eat dinner. The robot can reduce the number of human inputs -- and how precise those inputs need to be -- by recognizing what the human wants (e.g., a fork) and assisting for that task (e.g., moving towards the fork). Prior research has largely focused on learning the human's task and providing meaningful assistance. But as the robot learns and assists, we also need to ensure that the human understands the robot's intent (e.g., does the human know the robot is reaching for a fork?). In this paper, we study the effects of communicating learned assistance from the robot back to the human operator. We do not focus on the specific interfaces used for communication. Instead, we develop experimental and theoretical models of a) how communication changes the way humans interact with assistive robot arms, and b) how robots can harness these changes to better align with the human's intent. We first conduct online and in-person user studies where participants operate robots that provide partial assistance, and we measure how the human's inputs change with and without communication. With communication, we find that humans are more likely to intervene when the robot incorrectly predicts their intent, and more likely to release control when the robot correctly understands their task. We then use these findings to modify an established robot learning algorithm so that the robot can correctly interpret the human's inputs when communication is present. Our results from a second in-person user study suggest that this combination of communication and learning outperforms assistive systems that isolate either learning or communication.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [20]
标题:  LN3Diff: Scalable Latent Neural Fields Diffusion for Speedy 3D  Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12019
作者:  Yushi Lan,  Fangzhou Hong,  Shuai Yang,  Shangchen Zhou,  Xuyi Meng,  Bo Dai,  Xingang Pan,  Chen Change Loy
备注:  project webpage: this https URL
Abstract:The field of neural rendering has witnessed significant progress with advancements in generative models and differentiable rendering techniques. Though 2D diffusion has achieved success, a unified 3D diffusion pipeline remains unsettled. This paper introduces a novel framework called LN3Diff to address this gap and enable fast, high-quality, and generic conditional 3D generation. Our approach harnesses a 3D-aware architecture and variational autoencoder (VAE) to encode the input image into a structured, compact, and 3D latent space. The latent is decoded by a transformer-based decoder into a high-capacity 3D neural field. Through training a diffusion model on this 3D-aware latent space, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on ShapeNet for 3D generation and demonstrates superior performance in monocular 3D reconstruction and conditional 3D generation across various datasets. Moreover, it surpasses existing 3D diffusion methods in terms of inference speed, requiring no per-instance optimization. Our proposed LN3Diff presents a significant advancement in 3D generative modeling and holds promise for various applications in 3D vision and graphics tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [21]
标题:  Supervised Fine-Tuning as Inverse Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12017
作者:  Hao Sun
备注:  
Abstract:The prevailing approach to aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) typically relies on human or AI feedback and assumes access to specific types of preference datasets. In our work, we question the efficacy of such datasets and explore various scenarios where alignment with expert demonstrations proves more realistic. We build a sequential decision-making framework to formulate the problem of aligning LLMs using demonstration datasets. Drawing insights from inverse reinforcement learning and imitation learning, we introduce various approaches for divergence minimization in the LLM alignment tasks. Our analysis highlights the mass-covering and mode-seeking behaviors of these different approaches. Inclusively, we examine the pros and cons of the classical supervised fine-tuning method, elaborating on scenarios where different methods shine.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [22]
标题:  Fast High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Adversarial Diffusion  Distillation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12015
作者:  Axel Sauer,  Frederic Boesel,  Tim Dockhorn,  Andreas Blattmann,  Patrick Esser,  Robin Rombach
备注:  
Abstract:Diffusion models are the main driver of progress in image and video synthesis, but suffer from slow inference speed. Distillation methods, like the recently introduced adversarial diffusion distillation (ADD) aim to shift the model from many-shot to single-step inference, albeit at the cost of expensive and difficult optimization due to its reliance on a fixed pretrained DINOv2 discriminator. We introduce Latent Adversarial Diffusion Distillation (LADD), a novel distillation approach overcoming the limitations of ADD. In contrast to pixel-based ADD, LADD utilizes generative features from pretrained latent diffusion models. This approach simplifies training and enhances performance, enabling high-resolution multi-aspect ratio image synthesis. We apply LADD to Stable Diffusion 3 (8B) to obtain SD3-Turbo, a fast model that matches the performance of state-of-the-art text-to-image generators using only four unguided sampling steps. Moreover, we systematically investigate its scaling behavior and demonstrate LADD's effectiveness in various applications such as image editing and inpainting.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [23]
标题:  EnvGen: Generating and Adapting Environments via LLMs for Training  Embodied Agents
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12014
作者:  Abhay Zala,  Jaemin Cho,  Han Lin,  Jaehong Yoon,  Mohit Bansal
备注:  First two authors contributed equally; Project website: this https URL
Abstract:Recent SOTA approaches for embodied learning via interaction directly employ large language models (LLMs) as agents to determine the next steps in an environment. Due to their world knowledge and reasoning capabilities, LLM agents achieve stronger performance than previous smaller agents based on reinforcement learning (RL); however, frequently calling LLMs is slow and expensive. Instead of directly employing LLMs as agents, can we use LLMs' reasoning capabilities to adaptively create training environments to help smaller embodied RL agents learn useful skills that they are weak at? We propose EnvGen, a novel framework to address this question. First, we prompt an LLM to generate training environments that allow agents to quickly learn different tasks in parallel. Concretely, the LLM is given the task description and simulator objectives that the agents should learn and is then asked to generate a set of environment configurations (e.g., different terrains, items given to agents, etc.). Next, we train a small RL agent in a mixture of the original and LLM-generated environments. Then, we enable the LLM to continuously adapt the generated environments to progressively improve the skills that the agent is weak at, by providing feedback to the LLM in the form of the agent's performance. We demonstrate the usefulness of EnvGen with comprehensive experiments in Crafter and Heist environments. We find that a small RL agent trained with EnvGen can outperform SOTA methods, including a GPT-4 agent, and learns long-horizon tasks significantly faster. We show qualitatively how the LLM adapts training environments to help improve RL agents' weaker skills over time. Additionally, EnvGen is substantially more efficient as it only uses a small number of LLM calls (e.g., 4 in total), whereas LLM agents require thousands of LLM calls. Lastly, we present detailed ablation studies for our design choices.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [24]
标题:  GeoWizard: Unleashing the Diffusion Priors for 3D Geometry Estimation  from a Single Image
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12013
作者:  Xiao Fu,  Wei Yin,  Mu Hu,  Kaixuan Wang,  Yuexin Ma,  Ping Tan,  Shaojie Shen,  Dahua Lin,  Xiaoxiao Long
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:We introduce GeoWizard, a new generative foundation model designed for estimating geometric attributes, e.g., depth and normals, from single images. While significant research has already been conducted in this area, the progress has been substantially limited by the low diversity and poor quality of publicly available datasets. As a result, the prior works either are constrained to limited scenarios or suffer from the inability to capture geometric details. In this paper, we demonstrate that generative models, as opposed to traditional discriminative models (e.g., CNNs and Transformers), can effectively address the inherently ill-posed problem. We further show that leveraging diffusion priors can markedly improve generalization, detail preservation, and efficiency in resource usage. Specifically, we extend the original stable diffusion model to jointly predict depth and normal, allowing mutual information exchange and high consistency between the two representations. More importantly, we propose a simple yet effective strategy to segregate the complex data distribution of various scenes into distinct sub-distributions. This strategy enables our model to recognize different scene layouts, capturing 3D geometry with remarkable fidelity. GeoWizard sets new benchmarks for zero-shot depth and normal prediction, significantly enhancing many downstream applications such as 3D reconstruction, 2D content creation, and novel viewpoint synthesis.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [25]
标题:  HOIDiffusion: Generating Realistic 3D Hand-Object Interaction Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12011
作者:  Mengqi Zhang,  Yang Fu,  Zheng Ding,  Sifei Liu,  Zhuowen Tu,  Xiaolong Wang
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:3D hand-object interaction data is scarce due to the hardware constraints in scaling up the data collection process. In this paper, we propose HOIDiffusion for generating realistic and diverse 3D hand-object interaction data. Our model is a conditional diffusion model that takes both the 3D hand-object geometric structure and text description as inputs for image synthesis. This offers a more controllable and realistic synthesis as we can specify the structure and style inputs in a disentangled manner. HOIDiffusion is trained by leveraging a diffusion model pre-trained on large-scale natural images and a few 3D human demonstrations. Beyond controllable image synthesis, we adopt the generated 3D data for learning 6D object pose estimation and show its effectiveness in improving perception systems. Project page: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [26]
标题:  VideoMV: Consistent Multi-View Generation Based on Large Video  Generative Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12010
作者:  Qi Zuo,  Xiaodong Gu,  Lingteng Qiu,  Yuan Dong,  Zhengyi Zhao,  Weihao Yuan,  Rui Peng,  Siyu Zhu,  Zilong Dong,  Liefeng Bo,  Qixing Huang
备注:  Project page: aigc3d.github.io/VideoMV/
Abstract:Generating multi-view images based on text or single-image prompts is a critical capability for the creation of 3D content. Two fundamental questions on this topic are what data we use for training and how to ensure multi-view consistency. This paper introduces a novel framework that makes fundamental contributions to both questions. Unlike leveraging images from 2D diffusion models for training, we propose a dense consistent multi-view generation model that is fine-tuned from off-the-shelf video generative models. Images from video generative models are more suitable for multi-view generation because the underlying network architecture that generates them employs a temporal module to enforce frame consistency. Moreover, the video data sets used to train these models are abundant and diverse, leading to a reduced train-finetuning domain gap. To enhance multi-view consistency, we introduce a 3D-Aware Denoising Sampling, which first employs a feed-forward reconstruction module to get an explicit global 3D model, and then adopts a sampling strategy that effectively involves images rendered from the global 3D model into the denoising sampling loop to improve the multi-view consistency of the final images. As a by-product, this module also provides a fast way to create 3D assets represented by 3D Gaussians within a few seconds. Our approach can generate 24 dense views and converges much faster in training than state-of-the-art approaches (4 GPU hours versus many thousand GPU hours) with comparable visual quality and consistency. By further fine-tuning, our approach outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in both quantitative metrics and visual effects. Our project page is this http URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [27]
标题:  Leveraging Spatial and Semantic Feature Extraction for Skin Cancer  Diagnosis with Capsule Networks and Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12009
作者:  K. P. Santoso,  R. V. H. Ginardi,  R. A. Sastrowardoyo,  F. A. Madany
备注:  This is the first version of our paper, we gladly expect feedback and corrections if there is any mistake within our paper
Abstract:In the realm of skin lesion image classification, the intricate spatial and semantic features pose significant challenges for conventional Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-based methodologies. These challenges are compounded by the imbalanced nature of skin lesion datasets, which hampers the ability of models to learn minority class features effectively. Despite augmentation strategies, such as those using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), previous attempts have not fully addressed these complexities. This study introduces an innovative approach by integrating Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) with Capsule Networks to enhance classification performance. GNNs, known for their proficiency in handling graph-structured data, offer an advanced mechanism for capturing complex patterns and relationships beyond the capabilities of traditional CNNs. Capsule Networks further contribute by providing superior recognition of spatial hierarchies within images. Our research focuses on evaluating and enhancing the Tiny Pyramid Vision GNN (Tiny Pyramid ViG) architecture by incorporating it with a Capsule Network. This hybrid model was applied to the MNIST:HAM10000 dataset, a comprehensive skin lesion dataset designed for benchmarking classification models. After 75 epochs of training, our model achieved a significant accuracy improvement, reaching 89.23% and 95.52%, surpassing established benchmarks such as GoogLeNet (83.94%), InceptionV3 (86.82%), MobileNet V3 (89.87%), EfficientNet-B7 (92.07%), ResNet18 (92.22%), ResNet34 (91.90%), ViT-Base (73.70%), and IRv2-SA (93.47%) on the same dataset. This outcome underscores the potential of our approach in overcoming the inherent challenges of skin lesion classification, contributing to the advancement of image-based diagnosis in dermatology.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [28]
标题:  SV3D: Novel Multi-view Synthesis and 3D Generation from a Single Image  using Latent Video Diffusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12008
作者:  Vikram Voleti,  Chun-Han Yao,  Mark Boss,  Adam Letts,  David Pankratz,  Dmitry Tochilkin,  Christian Laforte,  Robin Rombach,  Varun Jampani
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:We present Stable Video 3D (SV3D) -- a latent video diffusion model for high-resolution, image-to-multi-view generation of orbital videos around a 3D object. Recent work on 3D generation propose techniques to adapt 2D generative models for novel view synthesis (NVS) and 3D optimization. However, these methods have several disadvantages due to either limited views or inconsistent NVS, thereby affecting the performance of 3D object generation. In this work, we propose SV3D that adapts image-to-video diffusion model for novel multi-view synthesis and 3D generation, thereby leveraging the generalization and multi-view consistency of the video models, while further adding explicit camera control for NVS. We also propose improved 3D optimization techniques to use SV3D and its NVS outputs for image-to-3D generation. Extensive experimental results on multiple datasets with 2D and 3D metrics as well as user study demonstrate SV3D's state-of-the-art performance on NVS as well as 3D reconstruction compared to prior works.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [29]
标题:  Defining Effective Engagement For Enhancing Cancer Patients' Well-being  with Mobile Digital Behavior Change Interventions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12007
作者:  Aneta Lisowska,  Szymon Wilk,  Laura Locati,  Mimma Rizzo,  Lucia Sacchi,  Silvana Quaglini,  Matteo Terzaghi,  Valentina Tibollo,  Mor Peleg
备注:  
Abstract:Digital Behavior Change Interventions (DBCIs) are supporting development of new health behaviors. Evaluating their effectiveness is crucial for their improvement and understanding of success factors. However, comprehensive guidance for developers, particularly in small-scale studies with ethical constraints, is limited. Building on the CAPABLE project, this study aims to define effective engagement with DBCIs for supporting cancer patients in enhancing their quality of life. We identify metrics for measuring engagement, explore the interest of both patients and clinicians in DBCIs, and propose hypotheses for assessing the impact of DBCIs in such contexts. Our findings suggest that clinician prescriptions significantly increase sustained engagement with mobile DBCIs. In addition, while one weekly engagement with a DBCI is sufficient to maintain well-being, transitioning from extrinsic to intrinsic motivation may require a higher level of engagement.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [30]
标题:  Approximate Stability Radius Analysis and Design in Linear Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12006
作者:  Ananta Kant Rai,  Vaibhav Katewa
备注:  
Abstract:The robustness of the stability properties of dynamical systems in the presence of unknown/adversarial perturbations to system parameters is a desirable property. In this paper, we present methods to efficiently compute and improve the approximate stability radius of linear time-invariant systems. We propose two methods to derive closed-form expressions of approximate stability radius, and use these to re-design the system matrix to increase the stability radius. Our numerical studies show that the approximations work well and are able to improve the robustness of the stability of the system.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [31]
标题:  Visualization for Trust in Machine Learning Revisited: The State of the  Field in 2023
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12005
作者:  Angelos Chatzimparmpas,  Kostiantyn Kucher,  Andreas Kerren
备注:  This manuscript is accepted for publication in the IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications Journal (IEEE CG&A)
Abstract:Visualization for explainable and trustworthy machine learning remains one of the most important and heavily researched fields within information visualization and visual analytics with various application domains, such as medicine, finance, and bioinformatics. After our 2020 state-of-the-art report comprising 200 techniques, we have persistently collected peer-reviewed articles describing visualization techniques, categorized them based on the previously established categorization schema consisting of 119 categories, and provided the resulting collection of 542 techniques in an online survey browser. In this survey article, we present the updated findings of new analyses of this dataset as of fall 2023 and discuss trends, insights, and eight open challenges for using visualizations in machine learning. Our results corroborate the rapidly growing trend of visualization techniques for increasing trust in machine learning models in the past three years, with visualization found to help improve popular model explainability methods and check new deep learning architectures, for instance.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [32]
标题:  The Value, Benefits, and Concerns of Generative AI-Powered Assistance in  Writing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12004
作者:  Zhuoyan Li,  Chen Liang,  Jing Peng,  Ming Yin
备注:  CHI 2024
Abstract:Recent advances in generative AI technologies like large language models raise both excitement and concerns about the future of human-AI co-creation in writing. To unpack people's attitude towards and experience with generative AI-powered writing assistants, in this paper, we conduct an experiment to understand whether and how much value people attach to AI assistance, and how the incorporation of AI assistance in writing workflows changes people's writing perceptions and performance. Our results suggest that people are willing to forgo financial payments to receive writing assistance from AI, especially if AI can provide direct content generation assistance and the writing task is highly creative. Generative AI-powered assistance is found to offer benefits in increasing people's productivity and confidence in writing. However, direct content generation assistance offered by AI also comes with risks, including decreasing people's sense of accountability and diversity in writing. We conclude by discussing the implications of our findings.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [33]
标题:  GenView: Enhancing View Quality with Pretrained Generative Model for  Self-Supervised Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12003
作者:  Xiaojie Li,  Yibo Yang,  Xiangtai Li,  Jianlong Wu,  Yue Yu,  Bernard Ghanem,  Min Zhang
备注:  Code: this https URL
Abstract:Self-supervised learning has achieved remarkable success in acquiring high-quality representations from unlabeled data. The widely adopted contrastive learning framework aims to learn invariant representations by minimizing the distance between positive views originating from the same image. However, existing techniques to construct positive views highly rely on manual transformations, resulting in limited diversity and potentially false positive pairs. To tackle these challenges, we present GenView, a controllable framework that augments the diversity of positive views leveraging the power of pretrained generative models while preserving semantics. We develop an adaptive view generation method that dynamically adjusts the noise level in sampling to ensure the preservation of essential semantic meaning while introducing variability. Additionally, we introduce a quality-driven contrastive loss, which assesses the quality of positive pairs by considering both foreground similarity and background diversity. This loss prioritizes the high-quality positive pairs we construct while reducing the influence of low-quality pairs, thereby mitigating potential semantic inconsistencies introduced by generative models and aggressive data augmentation. Thanks to the improved positive view quality and the quality-driven contrastive loss, GenView significantly improves self-supervised learning across various tasks. For instance, GenView improves MoCov2 performance by 2.5%/2.2% on ImageNet linear/semi-supervised classification. Moreover, GenView even performs much better than naively augmenting the ImageNet dataset with Laion400M or ImageNet21K. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [34]
标题:  DreamMotion: Space-Time Self-Similarity Score Distillation for Zero-Shot  Video Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12002
作者:  Hyeonho Jeong,  Jinho Chang,  Geon Yeong Park,  Jong Chul Ye
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Text-driven diffusion-based video editing presents a unique challenge not encountered in image editing literature: establishing real-world motion. Unlike existing video editing approaches, here we focus on score distillation sampling to circumvent the standard reverse diffusion process and initiate optimization from videos that already exhibit natural motion. Our analysis reveals that while video score distillation can effectively introduce new content indicated by target text, it can also cause significant structure and motion deviation. To counteract this, we propose to match space-time self-similarities of the original video and the edited video during the score distillation. Thanks to the use of score distillation, our approach is model-agnostic, which can be applied for both cascaded and non-cascaded video diffusion frameworks. Through extensive comparisons with leading methods, our approach demonstrates its superiority in altering appearances while accurately preserving the original structure and motion.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [35]
标题:  Notochord: a Flexible Probabilistic Model for Real-Time MIDI Performance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12000
作者:  Victor Shepardson,  Jack Armitage,  Thor Magnusson
备注:  12 pages, 6 figures. Published in AI Music Creativity 2022
Abstract:Deep learning-based probabilistic models of musical data are producing increasingly realistic results and promise to enter creative workflows of many kinds. Yet they have been little-studied in a performance setting, where the results of user actions typically ought to feel instantaneous. To enable such study, we designed Notochord, a deep probabilistic model for sequences of structured events, and trained an instance of it on the Lakh MIDI dataset. Our probabilistic formulation allows interpretable interventions at a sub-event level, which enables one model to act as a backbone for diverse interactive musical functions including steerable generation, harmonization, machine improvisation, and likelihood-based interfaces. Notochord can generate polyphonic and multi-track MIDI, and respond to inputs with latency below ten milliseconds. Training code, model checkpoints and interactive examples are provided as open source software.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [36]
标题:  HIRI-ViT: Scaling Vision Transformer with High Resolution Inputs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11999
作者:  Ting Yao,  Yehao Li,  Yingwei Pan,  Tao Mei
备注:  IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TPAMI)
Abstract:The hybrid deep models of Vision Transformer (ViT) and Convolution Neural Network (CNN) have emerged as a powerful class of backbones for vision tasks. Scaling up the input resolution of such hybrid backbones naturally strengthes model capacity, but inevitably suffers from heavy computational cost that scales quadratically. Instead, we present a new hybrid backbone with HIgh-Resolution Inputs (namely HIRI-ViT), that upgrades prevalent four-stage ViT to five-stage ViT tailored for high-resolution inputs. HIRI-ViT is built upon the seminal idea of decomposing the typical CNN operations into two parallel CNN branches in a cost-efficient manner. One high-resolution branch directly takes primary high-resolution features as inputs, but uses less convolution operations. The other low-resolution branch first performs down-sampling and then utilizes more convolution operations over such low-resolution features. Experiments on both recognition task (ImageNet-1K dataset) and dense prediction tasks (COCO and ADE20K datasets) demonstrate the superiority of HIRI-ViT. More remarkably, under comparable computational cost ($\sim$5.0 GFLOPs), HIRI-ViT achieves to-date the best published Top-1 accuracy of 84.3% on ImageNet with 448$\times$448 inputs, which absolutely improves 83.4% of iFormer-S by 0.9% with 224$\times$224 inputs.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [37]
标题:  Learning Useful Representations of Recurrent Neural Network Weight  Matrices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11998
作者:  Vincent Herrmann,  Francesco Faccio,  Jürgen Schmidhuber
备注:  
Abstract:Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) are general-purpose parallel-sequential computers. The program of an RNN is its weight matrix. How to learn useful representations of RNN weights that facilitate RNN analysis as well as downstream tasks? While the mechanistic approach directly looks at some RNN's weights to predict its behavior, the functionalist approach analyzes its overall functionality -- specifically, its input-output mapping. We consider several mechanistic approaches for RNN weights and adapt the permutation equivariant Deep Weight Space layer for RNNs. Our two novel functionalist approaches extract information from RNN weights by 'interrogating' the RNN through probing inputs. We develop a theoretical framework that demonstrates conditions under which the functionalist approach can generate rich representations that help determine RNN behavior. We create and release the first two 'model zoo' datasets for RNN weight representation learning. One consists of generative models of a class of formal languages, and the other one of classifiers of sequentially processed MNIST digits. With the help of an emulation-based self-supervised learning technique we compare and evaluate the different RNN weight encoding techniques on multiple downstream applications. On the most challenging one, namely predicting which exact task the RNN was trained on, functionalist approaches show clear superiority.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [38]
标题:  Accelerating Scientific Discovery with Generative Knowledge Extraction,  Graph-Based Representation, and Multimodal Intelligent Graph Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11996
作者:  Markus J. Buehler
备注:  
Abstract:Using generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), we transformed a set of 1,000 scientific papers in the area of biological materials into detailed ontological knowledge graphs, revealing their inherently scale-free nature. Using graph traversal path detection between dissimilar concepts based on combinatorial ranking of node similarity and betweenness centrality, we reveal deep insights into unprecedented interdisciplinary relationships that can be used to answer queries, identify gaps in knowledge, and propose never-before-seen material designs and their behaviors. One comparison revealed detailed structural parallels between biological materials and Beethoven's 9th Symphony, highlighting shared patterns of complexity through isomorphic mapping. The algorithm further created an innovative hierarchical mycelium-based composite that incorporates joint synthesis of graph sampling with principles extracted from Kandinsky's Composition VII painting, where the resulting composite reflects a balance of chaos and order, with features like adjustable porosity, mechanical strength, and complex patterned chemical functionalization. We uncover other isomorphisms across physical, biological, and artistic spheres, revealing a nuanced ontology of immanence and material flux that resonates with postmodern philosophy, and positions these interconnections within a heterarchical framework. Our findings reveal the dynamic, context-dependent interplay of entities beyond traditional hierarchical paradigms, emphasizing the significant role of individual components and their fluctuative relationships within the system. Our predictions achieve a far higher degree of novelty, technical detail and explorative capacity than conventional generative AI methods. The approach establishes a widely useful framework for innovation by revealing hidden connections that facilitate discovery.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [39]
标题:  Adaptive stepsize algorithms for Langevin dynamics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11993
作者:  Alix Leroy,  Benedict Leimkuhler,  Jonas Latz,  Desmond J. Higham
备注:  
Abstract:We discuss the design of an invariant measure-preserving transformed dynamics for the numerical treatment of Langevin dynamics based on rescaling of time, with the goal of sampling from an invariant measure. Given an appropriate monitor function which characterizes the numerical difficulty of the problem as a function of the state of the system, this method allows the stepsizes to be reduced only when necessary, facilitating efficient recovery of long-time behavior. We study both the overdamped and underdamped Langevin dynamics. We investigate how an appropriate correction term that ensures preservation of the invariant measure should be incorporated into a numerical splitting scheme. Finally, we demonstrate the use of the technique in several model systems, including a Bayesian sampling problem with a steep prior.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [40]
标题:  GetMesh: A Controllable Model for High-quality Mesh Generation and  Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11990
作者:  Zhaoyang Lyu,  Ben Fei,  Jinyi Wang,  Xudong Xu,  Ya Zhang,  Weidong Yang,  Bo Dai
备注:  
Abstract:Mesh is a fundamental representation of 3D assets in various industrial applications, and is widely supported by professional softwares. However, due to its irregular structure, mesh creation and manipulation is often time-consuming and labor-intensive. In this paper, we propose a highly controllable generative model, GetMesh, for mesh generation and manipulation across different categories. By taking a varying number of points as the latent representation, and re-organizing them as triplane representation, GetMesh generates meshes with rich and sharp details, outperforming both single-category and multi-category counterparts. Moreover, it also enables fine-grained control over the generation process that previous mesh generative models cannot achieve, where changing global/local mesh topologies, adding/removing mesh parts, and combining mesh parts across categories can be intuitively, efficiently, and robustly accomplished by adjusting the number, positions or features of latent points. Project page is this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [41]
标题:  SceneSense: Diffusion Models for 3D Occupancy Synthesis from Partial  Observation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11985
作者:  Alec Reed,  Brendan Crowe,  Doncey Albin,  Lorin Achey,  Bradley Hayes,  Christoffer Heckman
备注:  8 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:When exploring new areas, robotic systems generally exclusively plan and execute controls over geometry that has been directly measured. When entering space that was previously obstructed from view such as turning corners in hallways or entering new rooms, robots often pause to plan over the newly observed space. To address this we present SceneScene, a real-time 3D diffusion model for synthesizing 3D occupancy information from partial observations that effectively predicts these occluded or out of view geometries for use in future planning and control frameworks. SceneSense uses a running occupancy map and a single RGB-D camera to generate predicted geometry around the platform at runtime, even when the geometry is occluded or out of view. Our architecture ensures that SceneSense never overwrites observed free or occupied space. By preserving the integrity of the observed map, SceneSense mitigates the risk of corrupting the observed space with generative predictions. While SceneSense is shown to operate well using a single RGB-D camera, the framework is flexible enough to extend to additional modalities. SceneSense operates as part of any system that generates a running occupancy map `out of the box', removing conditioning from the framework. Alternatively, for maximum performance in new modalities, the perception backbone can be replaced and the model retrained for inference in new applications. Unlike existing models that necessitate multiple views and offline scene synthesis, or are focused on filling gaps in observed data, our findings demonstrate that SceneSense is an effective approach to estimating unobserved local occupancy information at runtime. Local occupancy predictions from SceneSense are shown to better represent the ground truth occupancy distribution during the test exploration trajectories than the running occupancy map.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [42]
标题:  Using Generative Text Models to Create Qualitative Codebooks for Student  Evaluations of Teaching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11984
作者:  Andrew Katz,  Mitchell Gerhardt,  Michelle Soledad
备注:  Natural language processing, large language models, generative AI, student evaluations of teaching, codebook generation, qualitative data analysis
Abstract:Feedback is a critical aspect of improvement. Unfortunately, when there is a lot of feedback from multiple sources, it can be difficult to distill the information into actionable insights. Consider student evaluations of teaching (SETs), which are important sources of feedback for educators. They can give instructors insights into what worked during a semester. A collection of SETs can also be useful to administrators as signals for courses or entire programs. However, on a large scale as in high-enrollment courses or administrative records over several years, the volume of SETs can render them difficult to analyze. In this paper, we discuss a novel method for analyzing SETs using natural language processing (NLP) and large language models (LLMs). We demonstrate the method by applying it to a corpus of 5,000 SETs from a large public university. We show that the method can be used to extract, embed, cluster, and summarize the SETs to identify the themes they express. More generally, this work illustrates how to use the combination of NLP techniques and LLMs to generate a codebook for SETs. We conclude by discussing the implications of this method for analyzing SETs and other types of student writing in teaching and research settings.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [43]
标题:  Diffusion Denoising as a Certified Defense against Clean-label Poisoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11981
作者:  Sanghyun Hong,  Nicholas Carlini,  Alexey Kurakin
备注:  
Abstract:We present a certified defense to clean-label poisoning attacks. These attacks work by injecting a small number of poisoning samples (e.g., 1%) that contain $p$-norm bounded adversarial perturbations into the training data to induce a targeted misclassification of a test-time input. Inspired by the adversarial robustness achieved by $denoised$ $smoothing$, we show how an off-the-shelf diffusion model can sanitize the tampered training data. We extensively test our defense against seven clean-label poisoning attacks and reduce their attack success to 0-16% with only a negligible drop in the test time accuracy. We compare our defense with existing countermeasures against clean-label poisoning, showing that the defense reduces the attack success the most and offers the best model utility. Our results highlight the need for future work on developing stronger clean-label attacks and using our certified yet practical defense as a strong baseline to evaluate these attacks.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [44]
标题:  Pedestrian Tracking with Monocular Camera using Unconstrained 3D Motion  Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11978
作者:  Jan Krejčí,  Oliver Kost,  Ondřej Straka,  Jindřich Duník
备注:  Submitted to FUSION2024 conference
Abstract:A first-principle single-object model is proposed for pedestrian tracking. It is assumed that the extent of the moving object can be described via known statistics in 3D, such as pedestrian height. The proposed model thus need not constrain the object motion in 3D to a common ground plane, which is usual in 3D visual tracking applications. A nonlinear filter for this model is implemented using the unscented Kalman filter (UKF) and tested using the publicly available MOT-17 dataset. The proposed solution yields promising results in 3D while maintaining perfect results when projected into the 2D image. Moreover, the estimation error covariance matches the true one. Unlike conventional methods, the introduced model parameters have convenient meaning and can readily be adjusted for a problem.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [45]
标题:  Unveil Conditional Diffusion Models with Classifier-free Guidance: A  Sharp Statistical Theory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11968
作者:  Hengyu Fu,  Zhuoran Yang,  Mengdi Wang,  Minshuo Chen
备注:  92 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:Conditional diffusion models serve as the foundation of modern image synthesis and find extensive application in fields like computational biology and reinforcement learning. In these applications, conditional diffusion models incorporate various conditional information, such as prompt input, to guide the sample generation towards desired properties. Despite the empirical success, theory of conditional diffusion models is largely missing. This paper bridges this gap by presenting a sharp statistical theory of distribution estimation using conditional diffusion models. Our analysis yields a sample complexity bound that adapts to the smoothness of the data distribution and matches the minimax lower bound. The key to our theoretical development lies in an approximation result for the conditional score function, which relies on a novel diffused Taylor approximation technique. Moreover, we demonstrate the utility of our statistical theory in elucidating the performance of conditional diffusion models across diverse applications, including model-based transition kernel estimation in reinforcement learning, solving inverse problems, and reward conditioned sample generation.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [46]
标题:  Informed Spectral Normalized Gaussian Processes for Trajectory  Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11966
作者:  Christian Schlauch,  Christian Wirth,  Nadja Klein
备注:  
Abstract:Prior parameter distributions provide an elegant way to represent prior expert and world knowledge for informed learning. Previous work has shown that using such informative priors to regularize probabilistic deep learning (DL) models increases their performance and data-efficiency. However, commonly used sampling-based approximations for probabilistic DL models can be computationally expensive, requiring multiple inference passes and longer training times. Promising alternatives are compute-efficient last layer kernel approximations like spectral normalized Gaussian processes (SNGPs). We propose a novel regularization-based continual learning method for SNGPs, which enables the use of informative priors that represent prior knowledge learned from previous tasks. Our proposal builds upon well-established methods and requires no rehearsal memory or parameter expansion. We apply our informed SNGP model to the trajectory prediction problem in autonomous driving by integrating prior drivability knowledge. On two public datasets, we investigate its performance under diminishing training data and across locations, and thereby demonstrate an increase in data-efficiency and robustness to location-transfers over non-informed and informed baselines.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [47]
标题:  Probabilistic Calibration by Design for Neural Network Regression
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11964
作者:  Victor Dheur,  Souhaib Ben Taieb
备注:  Accepted at the 27th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS 2024)
Abstract:Generating calibrated and sharp neural network predictive distributions for regression problems is essential for optimal decision-making in many real-world applications. To address the miscalibration issue of neural networks, various methods have been proposed to improve calibration, including post-hoc methods that adjust predictions after training and regularization methods that act during training. While post-hoc methods have shown better improvement in calibration compared to regularization methods, the post-hoc step is completely independent of model training. We introduce a novel end-to-end model training procedure called Quantile Recalibration Training, integrating post-hoc calibration directly into the training process without additional parameters. We also present a unified algorithm that includes our method and other post-hoc and regularization methods, as particular cases. We demonstrate the performance of our method in a large-scale experiment involving 57 tabular regression datasets, showcasing improved predictive accuracy while maintaining calibration. We also conduct an ablation study to evaluate the significance of different components within our proposed method, as well as an in-depth analysis of the impact of the base model and different hyperparameters on predictive accuracy.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [48]
标题:  Transfer Learning Beyond Bounded Density Ratios
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11963
作者:  Alkis Kalavasis,  Ilias Zadik,  Manolis Zampetakis
备注:  Abstract shortened to fit ArXiv requirements
Abstract:We study the fundamental problem of transfer learning where a learning algorithm collects data from some source distribution $P$ but needs to perform well with respect to a different target distribution $Q$. A standard change of measure argument implies that transfer learning happens when the density ratio $dQ/dP$ is bounded. Yet, prior thought-provoking works by Kpotufe and Martinet (COLT, 2018) and Hanneke and Kpotufe (NeurIPS, 2019) demonstrate cases where the ratio $dQ/dP$ is unbounded, but transfer learning is possible. In this work, we focus on transfer learning over the class of low-degree polynomial estimators. Our main result is a general transfer inequality over the domain $\mathbb{R}^n$, proving that non-trivial transfer learning for low-degree polynomials is possible under very mild assumptions, going well beyond the classical assumption that $dQ/dP$ is bounded. For instance, it always applies if $Q$ is a log-concave measure and the inverse ratio $dP/dQ$ is bounded. To demonstrate the applicability of our inequality, we obtain new results in the settings of: (1) the classical truncated regression setting, where $dQ/dP$ equals infinity, and (2) the more recent out-of-distribution generalization setting for in-context learning linear functions with transformers. We also provide a discrete analogue of our transfer inequality on the Boolean Hypercube $\{-1,1\}^n$, and study its connections with the recent problem of Generalization on the Unseen of Abbe, Bengio, Lotfi and Rizk (ICML, 2023). Our main conceptual contribution is that the maximum influence of the error of the estimator $\widehat{f}-f^*$ under $Q$, $\mathrm{I}_{\max}(\widehat{f}-f^*)$, acts as a sufficient condition for transferability; when $\mathrm{I}_{\max}(\widehat{f}-f^*)$ is appropriately bounded, transfer is possible over the Boolean domain.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [49]
标题:  Enhanced Event-Based Video Reconstruction with Motion Compensation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11961
作者:  Siying Liu,  Pier Luigi Dragotti
备注:  22 pages, 8 figures (supplementary material included)
Abstract:Deep neural networks for event-based video reconstruction often suffer from a lack of interpretability and have high memory demands. A lightweight network called CISTA-LSTC has recently been introduced showing that high-quality reconstruction can be achieved through the systematic design of its architecture. However, its modelling assumption that input signals and output reconstructed frame share the same sparse representation neglects the displacement caused by motion. To address this, we propose warping the input intensity frames and sparse codes to enhance reconstruction quality. A CISTA-Flow network is constructed by integrating a flow network with CISTA-LSTC for motion compensation. The system relies solely on events, in which predicted flow aids in reconstruction and then reconstructed frames are used to facilitate flow estimation. We also introduce an iterative training framework for this combined system. Results demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art reconstruction accuracy and simultaneously provides reliable dense flow estimation. Furthermore, our model exhibits flexibility in that it can integrate different flow networks, suggesting its potential for further performance enhancement.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [50]
标题:  CASPER: Causality-Aware Spatiotemporal Graph Neural Networks for  Spatiotemporal Time Series Imputation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11960
作者:  Baoyu Jing,  Dawei Zhou,  Kan Ren,  Carl Yang
备注:  Preprint. Work in progress
Abstract:Spatiotemporal time series is the foundation of understanding human activities and their impacts, which is usually collected via monitoring sensors placed at different locations. The collected data usually contains missing values due to various failures, which have significant impact on data analysis. To impute the missing values, a lot of methods have been introduced. When recovering a specific data point, most existing methods tend to take into consideration all the information relevant to that point regardless of whether they have a cause-and-effect relationship. During data collection, it is inevitable that some unknown confounders are included, e.g., background noise in time series and non-causal shortcut edges in the constructed sensor network. These confounders could open backdoor paths between the input and output, in other words, they establish non-causal correlations between the input and output. Over-exploiting these non-causal correlations could result in overfitting and make the model vulnerable to noises. In this paper, we first revisit spatiotemporal time series imputation from a causal perspective, which shows the causal relationships among the input, output, embeddings and confounders. Next, we show how to block the confounders via the frontdoor adjustment. Based on the results of the frontdoor adjustment, we introduce a novel Causality-Aware SPatiotEmpoRal graph neural network (CASPER), which contains a novel Spatiotemporal Causal Attention (SCA) and a Prompt Based Decoder (PBD). PBD could reduce the impact of confounders and SCA could discover the sparse causal relationships among embeddings. Theoretical analysis reveals that SCA discovers causal relationships based on the values of gradients. We evaluate Casper on three real-world datasets, and the experimental results show that Casper outperforms the baselines and effectively discovers causal relationships.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [51]
标题:  LAVA: Long-horizon Visual Action based Food Acquisition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12876
作者:  Amisha Bhaskar,  Rui Liu,  Vishnu D. Sharma,  Guangyao Shi,  Pratap Tokekar
备注:  8 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Robotic Assisted Feeding (RAF) addresses the fundamental need for individuals with mobility impairments to regain autonomy in feeding themselves. The goal of RAF is to use a robot arm to acquire and transfer food to individuals from the table. Existing RAF methods primarily focus on solid foods, leaving a gap in manipulation strategies for semi-solid and deformable foods. This study introduces Long-horizon Visual Action (LAVA) based food acquisition of liquid, semisolid, and deformable foods. Long-horizon refers to the goal of "clearing the bowl" by sequentially acquiring the food from the bowl. LAVA employs a hierarchical policy for long-horizon food acquisition tasks. The framework uses high-level policy to determine primitives by leveraging ScoopNet. At the mid-level, LAVA finds parameters for primitives using vision. To carry out sequential plans in the real world, LAVA delegates action execution which is driven by Low-level policy that uses parameters received from mid-level policy and behavior cloning ensuring precise trajectory execution. We validate our approach on complex real-world acquisition trials involving granular, liquid, semisolid, and deformable food types along with fruit chunks and soup acquisition. Across 46 bowls, LAVA acquires much more efficiently than baselines with a success rate of 89 +/- 4% and generalizes across realistic plate variations such as different positions, varieties, and amount of food in the bowl. Code, datasets, videos, and supplementary materials can be found on our website.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [52]
标题:  Short-Term Solar Irradiance Forecasting Under Data Transmission  Constraints
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12873
作者:  Joshua Edward Hammond (1),  Ricardo A. Lara Orozco (2),  Michael Baldea (1 and 3),  Brian A. Korgel (1 and 4) ((1) McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering The University of Texas at Austin, (2) Hildebrand Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering The University of Texas at Austin, (3) Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences The University of Texas at Austin,(4) Energy Institute The University of Texas at Austin)
备注:  21 pages, 12 figures
Abstract:We report a data-parsimonious machine learning model for short-term forecasting of solar irradiance. The model inputs include sky camera images that are reduced to scalar features to meet data transmission constraints. The output irradiance values are transformed to focus on unknown short-term dynamics. Inspired by control theory, a noise input is used to reflect unmeasured variables and is shown to improve model predictions, often considerably. Five years of data from the NREL Solar Radiation Research Laboratory were used to create three rolling train-validate sets and determine the best representations for time, the optimal span of input measurements, and the most impactful model input data (features). For the chosen test data, the model achieves a mean absolute error of 74.34 $W/m^2$ compared to a baseline 134.35 $W/m^2$ using the persistence of cloudiness model.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [53]
标题:  Wildfire danger prediction optimization with transfer learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12871
作者:  Spiros Maggioros,  Nikos Tsalkitzis
备注:  
Abstract:Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have proven instrumental across various computer science domains, enabling advancements in object detection, classification, and anomaly detection. This paper explores the application of CNNs to analyze geospatial data specifically for identifying wildfire-affected areas. Leveraging transfer learning techniques, we fine-tuned CNN hyperparameters and integrated the Canadian Fire Weather Index (FWI) to assess moisture conditions. The study establishes a methodology for computing wildfire risk levels on a scale of 0 to 5, dynamically linked to weather patterns. Notably, through the integration of transfer learning, the CNN model achieved an impressive accuracy of 95\% in identifying burnt areas. This research sheds light on the inner workings of CNNs and their practical, real-time utility in predicting and mitigating wildfires. By combining transfer learning and CNNs, this study contributes a robust approach to assess burnt areas, facilitating timely interventions and preventative measures against conflagrations.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [54]
标题:  PoNQ: a Neural QEM-based Mesh Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12870
作者:  Nissim Maruani,  Maks Ovsjanikov,  Pierre Alliez,  Mathieu Desbrun
备注:  
Abstract:Although polygon meshes have been a standard representation in geometry processing, their irregular and combinatorial nature hinders their suitability for learning-based applications. In this work, we introduce a novel learnable mesh representation through a set of local 3D sample Points and their associated Normals and Quadric error metrics (QEM) w.r.t. the underlying shape, which we denote PoNQ. A global mesh is directly derived from PoNQ by efficiently leveraging the knowledge of the local quadric errors. Besides marking the first use of QEM within a neural shape representation, our contribution guarantees both topological and geometrical properties by ensuring that a PoNQ mesh does not self-intersect and is always the boundary of a volume. Notably, our representation does not rely on a regular grid, is supervised directly by the target surface alone, and also handles open surfaces with boundaries and/or sharp features. We demonstrate the efficacy of PoNQ through a learning-based mesh prediction from SDF grids and show that our method surpasses recent state-of-the-art techniques in terms of both surface and edge-based metrics.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [55]
标题:  Regularization in Spider-Style Strategy Discovery and Schedule  Construction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12869
作者:  Filip Bártek,  Karel Chvalovský,  Martin Suda
备注:  25 pages, 8 figures, submitted to IJCAR 2024
Abstract:To achieve the best performance, automatic theorem provers often rely on schedules of diverse proving strategies to be tried out (either sequentially or in parallel) on a given problem. In this paper, we report on a large-scale experiment with discovering strategies for the Vampire prover, targeting the FOF fragment of the TPTP library and constructing a schedule for it, based on the ideas of Andrei Voronkov's system Spider. We examine the process from various angles, discuss the difficulty (or ease) of obtaining a strong Vampire schedule for the CASC competition, and establish how well a schedule can be expected to generalize to unseen problems and what factors influence this property.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [56]
标题:  PE-Planner: A Performance-Enhanced Quadrotor Motion Planner for  Autonomous Flight in Complex and Dynamic Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12865
作者:  Jiaxin Qiu,  Qingchen Liu,  Jiahu Qin,  Dewang Cheng,  Yawei Tian,  Qichao Ma
备注:  
Abstract:The role of a motion planner is pivotal in quadrotor applications, yet existing methods often struggle to adapt to complex environments, limiting their ability to achieve fast, safe, and robust flight. In this letter, we introduce a performance-enhanced quadrotor motion planner designed for autonomous flight in complex environments including dense obstacles, dynamic obstacles, and unknown disturbances. The global planner generates an initial trajectory through kinodynamic path searching and refines it using B-spline trajectory optimization. Subsequently, the local planner takes into account the quadrotor dynamics, estimated disturbance, global reference trajectory, control cost, time cost, and safety constraints to generate real-time control inputs, utilizing the framework of model predictive contouring control. Both simulations and real-world experiments corroborate the heightened robustness, safety, and speed of the proposed motion planner. Additionally, our motion planner achieves flights at more than 6.8 m/s in a challenging and complex racing scenario.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [57]
标题:  A Comparison of Deep Learning Architectures for Spacecraft Anomaly  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12864
作者:  Daniel Lakey,  Tim Schlippe
备注:  accepted for IEEE Aeroconf 2024
Abstract:Spacecraft operations are highly critical, demanding impeccable reliability and safety. Ensuring the optimal performance of a spacecraft requires the early detection and mitigation of anomalies, which could otherwise result in unit or mission failures. With the advent of deep learning, a surge of interest has been seen in leveraging these sophisticated algorithms for anomaly detection in space operations. This study aims to compare the efficacy of various deep learning architectures in detecting anomalies in spacecraft data. The deep learning models under investigation include Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks, and Transformer-based architectures. Each of these models was trained and validated using a comprehensive dataset sourced from multiple spacecraft missions, encompassing diverse operational scenarios and anomaly types. Initial results indicate that while CNNs excel in identifying spatial patterns and may be effective for some classes of spacecraft data, LSTMs and RNNs show a marked proficiency in capturing temporal anomalies seen in time-series spacecraft telemetry. The Transformer-based architectures, given their ability to focus on both local and global contexts, have showcased promising results, especially in scenarios where anomalies are subtle and span over longer durations. Additionally, considerations such as computational efficiency, ease of deployment, and real-time processing capabilities were evaluated. While CNNs and LSTMs demonstrated a balance between accuracy and computational demands, Transformer architectures, though highly accurate, require significant computational resources. In conclusion, the choice of deep learning architecture for spacecraft anomaly detection is highly contingent on the nature of the data, the type of anomalies, and operational constraints.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [58]
标题:  Epistemology of Language Models: Do Language Models Have Holistic  Knowledge?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12862
作者:  Minsu Kim,  James Thorne
备注:  
Abstract:This paper investigates the inherent knowledge in language models from the perspective of epistemological holism. The purpose of this paper is to explore whether LLMs exhibit characteristics consistent with epistemological holism. These characteristics suggest that core knowledge, such as general scientific knowledge, each plays a specific role, serving as the foundation of our knowledge system and being difficult to revise. To assess these traits related to holism, we created a scientific reasoning dataset and examined the epistemology of language models through three tasks: Abduction, Revision, and Argument Generation. In the abduction task, the language models explained situations while avoiding revising the core knowledge. However, in other tasks, the language models were revealed not to distinguish between core and peripheral knowledge, showing an incomplete alignment with holistic knowledge principles.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [59]
标题:  D-Cubed: Latent Diffusion Trajectory Optimisation for Dexterous  Deformable Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12861
作者:  Jun Yamada,  Shaohong Zhong,  Jack Collins,  Ingmar Posner
备注:  this https URL
Abstract:Mastering dexterous robotic manipulation of deformable objects is vital for overcoming the limitations of parallel grippers in real-world applications. Current trajectory optimisation approaches often struggle to solve such tasks due to the large search space and the limited task information available from a cost function. In this work, we propose D-Cubed, a novel trajectory optimisation method using a latent diffusion model (LDM) trained from a task-agnostic play dataset to solve dexterous deformable object manipulation tasks. D-Cubed learns a skill-latent space that encodes short-horizon actions in the play dataset using a VAE and trains a LDM to compose the skill latents into a skill trajectory, representing a long-horizon action trajectory in the dataset. To optimise a trajectory for a target task, we introduce a novel gradient-free guided sampling method that employs the Cross-Entropy method within the reverse diffusion process. In particular, D-Cubed samples a small number of noisy skill trajectories using the LDM for exploration and evaluates the trajectories in simulation. Then, D-Cubed selects the trajectory with the lowest cost for the subsequent reverse process. This effectively explores promising solution areas and optimises the sampled trajectories towards a target task throughout the reverse diffusion process. Through empirical evaluation on a public benchmark of dexterous deformable object manipulation tasks, we demonstrate that D-Cubed outperforms traditional trajectory optimisation and competitive baseline approaches by a significant margin. We further demonstrate that trajectories found by D-Cubed readily transfer to a real-world LEAP hand on a folding task.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [60]
标题:  Equivariant Ensembles and Regularization for Reinforcement Learning in  Map-based Path Planning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12856
作者:  Mirco Theile,  Hongpeng Cao,  Marco Caccamo,  Alberto L. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli
备注:  submitted for possible publication. A video can be found here: this https URL
Abstract:In reinforcement learning (RL), exploiting environmental symmetries can significantly enhance efficiency, robustness, and performance. However, ensuring that the deep RL policy and value networks are respectively equivariant and invariant to exploit these symmetries is a substantial challenge. Related works try to design networks that are equivariant and invariant by construction, limiting them to a very restricted library of components, which in turn hampers the expressiveness of the networks. This paper proposes a method to construct equivariant policies and invariant value functions without specialized neural network components, which we term equivariant ensembles. We further add a regularization term for adding inductive bias during training. In a map-based path planning case study, we show how equivariant ensembles and regularization benefit sample efficiency and performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [61]
标题:  RASP: A Drone-based Reconfigurable Actuation and Sensing Platform  Towards Ambient Intelligent Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12853
作者:  Minghui Zhao,  Junxi Xia,  Kaiyuan Hou,  Yanchen Liu,  Stephen Xia,  Xiaofan Jiang
备注:  
Abstract:Realizing consumer-grade drones that are as useful as robot vacuums throughout our homes or personal smartphones in our daily lives requires drones to sense, actuate, and respond to general scenarios that may arise. Towards this vision, we propose RASP, a modular and reconfigurable sensing and actuation platform that allows drones to autonomously swap onboard sensors and actuators in only 25 seconds, allowing a single drone to quickly adapt to a diverse range of tasks. RASP consists of a mechanical layer to physically swap sensor modules, an electrical layer to maintain power and communication lines to the sensor/actuator, and a software layer to maintain a common interface between the drone and any sensor module in our platform. Leveraging recent advances in large language and visual language models, we further introduce the architecture, implementation, and real-world deployments of a personal assistant system utilizing RASP. We demonstrate that RASP can enable a diverse range of useful tasks in home, office, lab, and other indoor settings.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [62]
标题:  Optimizing Service Placement in Edge-to-Cloud AR/VR Systems using a  Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12849
作者:  Mohammadsadeq Garshasbi Herabad,  Javid Taheri,  Bestoun S. Ahmed,  Calin Curescu
备注:  
Abstract:Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) systems involve computationally intensive image processing algorithms that can burden end-devices with limited resources, leading to poor performance in providing low latency services. Edge-to-cloud computing overcomes the limitations of end-devices by offloading their computations to nearby edge devices or remote cloud servers. Although this proves to be sufficient for many applications, optimal placement of latency sensitive AR/VR services in edge-to-cloud infrastructures (to provide desirable service response times and reliability) remain a formidable challenging. To address this challenge, this paper develops a Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm (MOGA) to optimize the placement of AR/VR-based services in multi-tier edge-to-cloud environments. The primary objective of the proposed MOGA is to minimize the response time of all running services, while maximizing the reliability of the underlying system from both software and hardware perspectives. To evaluate its performance, we mathematically modeled all components and developed a tailor-made simulator to assess its effectiveness on various scales. MOGA was compared with several heuristics to prove that intuitive solutions, which are usually assumed sufficient, are not efficient enough for the stated problem. The experimental results indicated that MOGA can significantly reduce the response time of deployed services by an average of 67\% on different scales, compared to other heuristic methods. MOGA also ensures reliability of the 97\% infrastructure (hardware) and 95\% services (software).
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [63]
标题:  Compositional 3D Scene Synthesis with Scene Graph Guided Layout-Shape  Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12848
作者:  Yao Wei,  Martin Renqiang Min,  George Vosselman,  Li Erran Li,  Michael Ying Yang
备注:  
Abstract:Compositional 3D scene synthesis has diverse applications across a spectrum of industries such as robotics, films, and video games, as it closely mirrors the complexity of real-world multi-object environments. Early works typically employ shape retrieval based frameworks which naturally suffer from limited shape diversity. Recent progresses have been made in shape generation with powerful generative models, such as diffusion models, which increases the shape fidelity. However, these approaches separately treat 3D shape generation and layout generation. The synthesized scenes are usually hampered by layout collision, which implies that the scene-level fidelity is still under-explored. In this paper, we aim at generating realistic and reasonable 3D scenes from scene graph. To enrich the representation capability of the given scene graph inputs, large language model is utilized to explicitly aggregate the global graph features with local relationship features. With a unified graph convolution network (GCN), graph features are extracted from scene graphs updated via joint layout-shape distribution. During scene generation, an IoU-based regularization loss is introduced to constrain the predicted 3D layouts. Benchmarked on the SG-FRONT dataset, our method achieves better 3D scene synthesis, especially in terms of scene-level fidelity. The source code will be released after publication.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [64]
标题:  Policy Bifurcation in Safe Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12847
作者:  Wenjun Zou,  Yao Lv,  Jie Li,  Yujie Yang,  Shengbo Eben Li,  Jingliang Duan,  Xianyuan Zhan,  Jingjing Liu,  Yaqin Zhang,  Keqiang Li
备注:  
Abstract:Safe reinforcement learning (RL) offers advanced solutions to constrained optimal control problems. Existing studies in safe RL implicitly assume continuity in policy functions, where policies map states to actions in a smooth, uninterrupted manner; however, our research finds that in some scenarios, the feasible policy should be discontinuous or multi-valued, interpolating between discontinuous local optima can inevitably lead to constraint violations. We are the first to identify the generating mechanism of such a phenomenon, and employ topological analysis to rigorously prove the existence of policy bifurcation in safe RL, which corresponds to the contractibility of the reachable tuple. Our theorem reveals that in scenarios where the obstacle-free state space is non-simply connected, a feasible policy is required to be bifurcated, meaning its output action needs to change abruptly in response to the varying state. To train such a bifurcated policy, we propose a safe RL algorithm called multimodal policy optimization (MUPO), which utilizes a Gaussian mixture distribution as the policy output. The bifurcated behavior can be achieved by selecting the Gaussian component with the highest mixing coefficient. Besides, MUPO also integrates spectral normalization and forward KL divergence to enhance the policy's capability of exploring different modes. Experiments with vehicle control tasks show that our algorithm successfully learns the bifurcated policy and ensures satisfying safety, while a continuous policy suffers from inevitable constraint violations.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [65]
标题:  MELTing point: Mobile Evaluation of Language Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12844
作者:  Stefanos Laskaridis,  Kleomenis Kateveas,  Lorenzo Minto,  Hamed Haddadi
备注:  Under review
Abstract:Transformers have revolutionized the machine learning landscape, gradually making their way into everyday tasks and equipping our computers with ``sparks of intelligence''. However, their runtime requirements have prevented them from being broadly deployed on mobile. As personal devices become increasingly powerful and prompt privacy becomes an ever more pressing issue, we explore the current state of mobile execution of Large Language Models (LLMs). To achieve this, we have created our own automation infrastructure, MELT, which supports the headless execution and benchmarking of LLMs on device, supporting different models, devices and frameworks, including Android, iOS and Nvidia Jetson devices. We evaluate popular instruction fine-tuned LLMs and leverage different frameworks to measure their end-to-end and granular performance, tracing their memory and energy requirements along the way. Our analysis is the first systematic study of on-device LLM execution, quantifying performance, energy efficiency and accuracy across various state-of-the-art models and showcases the state of on-device intelligence in the era of hyperscale models. Results highlight the performance heterogeneity across targets and corroborates that LLM inference is largely memory-bound. Quantization drastically reduces memory requirements and renders execution viable, but at a non-negligible accuracy cost. Drawing from its energy footprint and thermal behavior, the continuous execution of LLMs remains elusive, as both factors negatively affect user experience. Last, our experience shows that the ecosystem is still in its infancy, and algorithmic as well as hardware breakthroughs can significantly shift the execution cost. We expect NPU acceleration, and framework-hardware co-design to be the biggest bet towards efficient standalone execution, with the alternative of offloading tailored towards edge deployments.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [66]
标题:  The Interplay Between Symmetries and Impact Effects on Hybrid Mechanical  Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12842
作者:  William Clark,  Leonardo Colombo,  Anthony Bloch
备注:  6 pages. To be presented at a conference. Comments welcome
Abstract:Hybrid systems are dynamical systems with continuous-time and discrete-time components in their dynamics. When hybrid systems are defined on a principal bundle we are able to define two classes of impacts for the discrete-time transition of the dynamics: interior impacts and exterior impacts. In this paper we define hybrid systems on principal bundles, study the underlying geometry on the switching surface where impacts occur and we find conditions for which both exterior and interior impacts are preserved by the mechanical connection induced in the principal bundle.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Differential Geometry (math.DG)

**编号**: [67]
标题:  Global-guided Focal Neural Radiance Field for Large-scale Scene  Rendering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12839
作者:  Mingqi Shao,  Feng Xiong,  Hang Zhang,  Shuang Yang,  Mu Xu,  Wei Bian,  Xueqian Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Neural radiance fields~(NeRF) have recently been applied to render large-scale scenes. However, their limited model capacity typically results in blurred rendering results. Existing large-scale NeRFs primarily address this limitation by partitioning the scene into blocks, which are subsequently handled by separate sub-NeRFs. These sub-NeRFs, trained from scratch and processed independently, lead to inconsistencies in geometry and appearance across the scene. Consequently, the rendering quality fails to exhibit significant improvement despite the expansion of model capacity. In this work, we present global-guided focal neural radiance field (GF-NeRF) that achieves high-fidelity rendering of large-scale scenes. Our proposed GF-NeRF utilizes a two-stage (Global and Focal) architecture and a global-guided training strategy. The global stage obtains a continuous representation of the entire scene while the focal stage decomposes the scene into multiple blocks and further processes them with distinct sub-encoders. Leveraging this two-stage architecture, sub-encoders only need fine-tuning based on the global encoder, thus reducing training complexity in the focal stage while maintaining scene-wide consistency. Spatial information and error information from the global stage also benefit the sub-encoders to focus on crucial areas and effectively capture more details of large-scale scenes. Notably, our approach does not rely on any prior knowledge about the target scene, attributing GF-NeRF adaptable to various large-scale scene types, including street-view and aerial-view scenes. We demonstrate that our method achieves high-fidelity, natural rendering results on various types of large-scale datasets. Our project page: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [68]
标题:  How Spammers and Scammers Leverage AI-Generated Images on Facebook for  Audience Growth
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12838
作者:  Renee DiResta,  Josh A. Goldstein
备注:  18 pages, 13 Figures
Abstract:Much of the research and discourse on risks from artificial intelligence (AI) image generators, such as DALL-E and Midjourney, has centered around whether they could be used to inject false information into political discourse. We show that spammers and scammers - seemingly motivated by profit or clout, not ideology - are already using AI-generated images to gain significant traction on Facebook. At times, the Facebook Feed is recommending unlabeled AI-generated images to users who neither follow the Pages posting the images nor realize that the images are AI-generated, highlighting the need for improved transparency and provenance standards as AI models proliferate.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [69]
标题:  Opti-Acoustic Semantic SLAM with Unknown Objects in Underwater  Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12837
作者:  Kurran Singh,  Jungseok Hong,  Nicholas R. Rypkema,  John J. Leonard
备注:  
Abstract:Despite recent advances in semantic Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) for terrestrial and aerial applications, underwater semantic SLAM remains an open and largely unaddressed research problem due to the unique sensing modalities and the object classes found underwater. This paper presents an object-based semantic SLAM method for underwater environments that can identify, localize, classify, and map a wide variety of marine objects without a priori knowledge of the object classes present in the scene. The method performs unsupervised object segmentation and object-level feature aggregation, and then uses opti-acoustic sensor fusion for object localization. Probabilistic data association is used to determine observation to landmark correspondences. Given such correspondences, the method then jointly optimizes landmark and vehicle position estimates. Indoor and outdoor underwater datasets with a wide variety of objects and challenging acoustic and lighting conditions are collected for evaluation and made publicly available. Quantitative and qualitative results show the proposed method achieves reduced trajectory error compared to baseline methods, and is able to obtain comparable map accuracy to a baseline closed-set method that requires hand-labeled data of all objects in the scene.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [70]
标题:  AnySkill: Learning Open-Vocabulary Physical Skill for Interactive Agents
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12835
作者:  Jieming Cui,  Tengyu Liu,  Nian Liu,  Yaodong Yang,  Yixin Zhu,  Siyuan Huang
备注:  
Abstract:Traditional approaches in physics-based motion generation, centered around imitation learning and reward shaping, often struggle to adapt to new scenarios. To tackle this limitation, we propose AnySkill, a novel hierarchical method that learns physically plausible interactions following open-vocabulary instructions. Our approach begins by developing a set of atomic actions via a low-level controller trained via imitation learning. Upon receiving an open-vocabulary textual instruction, AnySkill employs a high-level policy that selects and integrates these atomic actions to maximize the CLIP similarity between the agent's rendered images and the text. An important feature of our method is the use of image-based rewards for the high-level policy, which allows the agent to learn interactions with objects without manual reward engineering. We demonstrate AnySkill's capability to generate realistic and natural motion sequences in response to unseen instructions of varying lengths, marking it the first method capable of open-vocabulary physical skill learning for interactive humanoid agents.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [71]
标题:  Embarrassingly Simple Scribble Supervision for 3D Medical Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12834
作者:  Karol Gotkowski,  Carsten Lüth,  Paul F. Jäger,  Sebastian Ziegler,  Lars Krämer,  Stefan Denner,  Shuhan Xiao,  Nico Disch,  Klaus H. Maier-Hein,  Fabian Isensee
备注:  
Abstract:Traditionally, segmentation algorithms require dense annotations for training, demanding significant annotation efforts, particularly within the 3D medical imaging field. Scribble-supervised learning emerges as a possible solution to this challenge, promising a reduction in annotation efforts when creating large-scale datasets. Recently, a plethora of methods for optimized learning from scribbles have been proposed, but have so far failed to position scribble annotation as a beneficial alternative. We relate this shortcoming to two major issues: 1) the complex nature of many methods which deeply ties them to the underlying segmentation model, thus preventing a migration to more powerful state-of-the-art models as the field progresses and 2) the lack of a systematic evaluation to validate consistent performance across the broader medical domain, resulting in a lack of trust when applying these methods to new segmentation problems. To address these issues, we propose a comprehensive scribble supervision benchmark consisting of seven datasets covering a diverse set of anatomies and pathologies imaged with varying modalities. We furthermore propose the systematic use of partial losses, i.e. losses that are only computed on annotated voxels. Contrary to most existing methods, these losses can be seamlessly integrated into state-of-the-art segmentation methods, enabling them to learn from scribble annotations while preserving their original loss formulations. Our evaluation using nnU-Net reveals that while most existing methods suffer from a lack of generalization, the proposed approach consistently delivers state-of-the-art performance. Thanks to its simplicity, our approach presents an embarrassingly simple yet effective solution to the challenges of scribble supervision. Source code as well as our extensive scribble benchmarking suite will be made publicly available upon publication.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [72]
标题:  Has Approximate Machine Unlearning been evaluated properly? From  Auditing to Side Effects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12830
作者:  Cheng-Long Wang,  Qi Li,  Zihang Xiang,  Di Wang
备注:  
Abstract:The growing concerns surrounding data privacy and security have underscored the critical necessity for machine unlearning--aimed at fully removing data lineage from machine learning models. MLaaS providers expect this to be their ultimate safeguard for regulatory compliance. Despite its critical importance, the pace at which privacy communities have been developing and implementing strong methods to verify the effectiveness of machine unlearning has been disappointingly slow, with this vital area often receiving insufficient focus. This paper seeks to address this shortfall by introducing well-defined and effective metrics for black-box unlearning auditing tasks. We transform the auditing challenge into a question of non-membership inference and develop efficient metrics for auditing. By relying exclusively on the original and unlearned models--eliminating the need to train additional shadow models--our approach simplifies the evaluation of unlearning at the individual data point level. Utilizing these metrics, we conduct an in-depth analysis of current approximate machine unlearning algorithms, identifying three key directions where these approaches fall short: utility, resilience, and equity. Our aim is that this work will greatly improve our understanding of approximate machine unlearning methods, taking a significant stride towards converting the theoretical right to data erasure into a auditable reality.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [73]
标题:  Cross Algorithms for Cost-Effective Time Integration of Nonlinear Tensor  Differential Equations on Low-Rank Tucker Tensor and Tensor Train Manifolds
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12826
作者:  Behzad Ghahremani,  Hessam Babaee
备注:  
Abstract:Dynamical low-rank approximation (DLRA) provides a rigorous, cost-effective mathematical framework for solving high-dimensional tensor differential equations (TDEs) on low-rank tensor manifolds. Despite their effectiveness, DLRA-based low-rank approximations lose their computational efficiency when applied to nonlinear TDEs, particularly those exhibiting non-polynomial nonlinearity. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm for the time integration of TDEs on the tensor train and Tucker tensor low-rank manifolds, which are the building blocks of many tensor network decompositions. This paper builds on our previous work (Donello et al., Proceedings of the Royal Society A, Vol. 479, 2023) on solving nonlinear matrix differential equations on low-rank matrix manifolds using CUR decompositions. The methodology we present offers multiple advantages: (i) it leverages cross algorithms based on the discrete empirical interpolation method to strategically sample sparse entries of the time-discrete TDEs to advance the solution in low-rank form. As a result, it offers near-optimal computational savings both in terms of memory and floating-point operations. (ii) The time integration is robust in the presence of small or zero singular values. (iii) The algorithm is remarkably easy to implement, as it requires the evaluation of the full-order model TDE at strategically selected entries and it does not use tangent space projections, whose efficient implementation is intrusive and time-consuming. (iv) We develop high-order explicit Runge-Kutta schemes for the time integration of TDEs on low-rank manifolds. We demonstrate the efficiency of the presented algorithm for several test cases, including a 100-dimensional TDE with non-polynomial nonlinearity.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [74]
标题:  Answer Set Programming for Flexible Payroll Management
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12823
作者:  Benjamin Callewaert,  Joost Vennekens
备注:  Under consideration in Theory and Practice of Logic Programming (TPLP)
Abstract:Payroll management is a critical business task that is subject to a large number of rules, which vary widely between companies, sectors, and countries. Moreover, the rules are often complex and change regularly. Therefore, payroll management systems must be flexible in design. In this paper, we suggest an approach based on a flexible Answer Set Programming (ASP) model and an easy-to-read tabular representation based on the Decision Model and Notation (DMN) standard. It allows HR consultants to represent complex rules without the need for a software engineer, and to ultimately design payroll systems for a variety of different scenarios. We show how the multi-shot solving capabilities of the clingo ASP system can be used to reach the performance that is necessary to handle real-world instances.
Subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [75]
标题:  FlowerFormer: Empowering Neural Architecture Encoding using a Flow-aware  Graph Transformer
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12821
作者:  Dongyeong Hwang,  Hyunju Kim,  Sunwoo Kim,  Kijung Shin
备注:  CVPR 2024 Camera-Ready
Abstract:The success of a specific neural network architecture is closely tied to the dataset and task it tackles; there is no one-size-fits-all solution. Thus, considerable efforts have been made to quickly and accurately estimate the performances of neural architectures, without full training or evaluation, for given tasks and datasets. Neural architecture encoding has played a crucial role in the estimation, and graphbased methods, which treat an architecture as a graph, have shown prominent performance. For enhanced representation learning of neural architectures, we introduce FlowerFormer, a powerful graph transformer that incorporates the information flows within a neural architecture. FlowerFormer consists of two key components: (a) bidirectional asynchronous message passing, inspired by the flows; (b) global attention built on flow-based masking. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of FlowerFormer over existing neural encoding methods, and its effectiveness extends beyond computer vision models to include graph neural networks and auto speech recognition models. Our code is available at this http URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [76]
标题:  A Physics-embedded Deep Learning Framework for Cloth Simulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12820
作者:  Zhiwei Zhao
备注:  Updates are kept with future progress. The code is available at: this https URL
Abstract:Delicate cloth simulations have long been desired in computer graphics. Various methods were proposed to improve engaged force interactions, collision handling, and numerical integrations. Deep learning has the potential to achieve fast and real-time simulation, but common neural network structures often demand many parameters to capture cloth dynamics. This paper proposes a physics-embedded learning framework that directly encodes physical features of cloth simulation. The convolutional neural network is used to represent spatial correlations of the mass-spring system, after which three branches are designed to learn linear, nonlinear, and time derivate features of cloth physics. The framework can also integrate with other external forces and collision handling through either traditional simulators or sub neural networks. The model is tested across different cloth animation cases, without training with new data. Agreement with baselines and predictive realism successfully validate its generalization ability. Inference efficiency of the proposed model also defeats traditional physics simulation. This framework is also designed to easily integrate with other visual refinement techniques like wrinkle carving, which leaves significant chances to incorporate prevailing macing learning techniques in 3D cloth amination.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [77]
标题:  Dynamic Survival Analysis for Early Event Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12818
作者:  Hugo Yèche,  Manuel Burger,  Dinara Veshchezerova,  Gunnar Rätsch
备注:  
Abstract:This study advances Early Event Prediction (EEP) in healthcare through Dynamic Survival Analysis (DSA), offering a novel approach by integrating risk localization into alarm policies to enhance clinical event metrics. By adapting and evaluating DSA models against traditional EEP benchmarks, our research demonstrates their ability to match EEP models on a time-step level and significantly improve event-level metrics through a new alarm prioritization scheme (up to 11% AuPRC difference). This approach represents a significant step forward in predictive healthcare, providing a more nuanced and actionable framework for early event prediction and management.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [78]
标题:  Re-identification from histopathology images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12816
作者:  Jonathan Ganz,  Jonas Ammeling,  Samir Jabari,  Katharina Breininger,  Marc Aubreville
备注:  20 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
Abstract:In numerous studies, deep learning algorithms have proven their potential for the analysis of histopathology images, for example, for revealing the subtypes of tumors or the primary origin of metastases. These models require large datasets for training, which must be anonymized to prevent possible patient identity leaks. This study demonstrates that even relatively simple deep learning algorithms can re-identify patients in large histopathology datasets with substantial accuracy. We evaluated our algorithms on two TCIA datasets including lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). We also demonstrate the algorithm's performance on an in-house dataset of meningioma tissue. We predicted the source patient of a slide with F1 scores of 50.16 % and 52.30 % on the LSCC and LUAD datasets, respectively, and with 62.31 % on our meningioma dataset. Based on our findings, we formulated a risk assessment scheme to estimate the risk to the patient's privacy prior to publication.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [79]
标题:  Knowledge and Data Dual-Driven Channel Estimation and Feedback for  Ultra-Massive MIMO Systems under Hybrid Field Beam Squint Effect
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12813
作者:  Kuiyu Wang,  Zhen Gao,  Sheng Chen,  Boyu Ning,  Gaojie Chen,  Yu Su,  Zhaocheng Wang,  H. Vincent Poor
备注:  17 pages, 22 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:Acquiring accurate channel state information (CSI) at an access point (AP) is challenging for wideband millimeter wave (mmWave) ultra-massive multiple-input and multiple-output (UMMIMO) systems, due to the high-dimensional channel matrices, hybrid near- and far- field channel feature, beam squint effects, and imperfect hardware constraints, such as low-resolution analog-to-digital converters, and in-phase and quadrature imbalance. To overcome these challenges, this paper proposes an efficient downlink channel estimation (CE) and CSI feedback approach based on knowledge and data dual-driven deep learning (DL) networks. Specifically, we first propose a data-driven residual neural network de-quantizer (ResNet-DQ) to pre-process the received pilot signals at user equipment (UEs), where the noise and distortion brought by imperfect hardware can be mitigated. A knowledge-driven generalized multiple measurement vector learned approximate message passing (GMMV-LAMP) network is then developed to jointly estimate the channels by exploiting the approximately same physical angle shared by different subcarriers. In particular, two wideband redundant dictionaries (WRDs) are proposed such that the measurement matrices of the GMMV-LAMP network can accommodate the far-field and near-field beam squint effect, respectively. Finally, we propose an encoder at the UEs and a decoder at the AP by a data-driven CSI residual network (CSI-ResNet) to compress the CSI matrix into a low-dimensional quantized bit vector for feedback, thereby reducing the feedback overhead substantially. Simulation results show that the proposed knowledge and data dual-driven approach outperforms conventional downlink CE and CSI feedback methods, especially in the case of low signal-to-noise ratios.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [80]
标题:  The Emergence of Hardware Fuzzing: A Critical Review of its Significance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12812
作者:  Raghul Saravanan,  Sai Manoj Pudukotai Dinakarrao
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, there has been a notable surge in attention towards hardware security, driven by the increasing complexity and integration of processors, SoCs, and third-party IPs aimed at delivering advanced solutions. However, this complexity also introduces vulnerabilities and bugs into hardware systems, necessitating early detection during the IC design cycle to uphold system integrity and mitigate re-engineering costs. While the Design Verification (DV) community employs dynamic and formal verification strategies, they encounter challenges such as scalability for intricate designs and significant human intervention, leading to prolonged verification durations. As an alternative approach, hardware fuzzing, inspired by software testing methodologies, has gained prominence for its efficacy in identifying bugs within complex hardware designs. Despite the introduction of various hardware fuzzing techniques, obstacles such as inefficient conversion of hardware modules into software models impede their effectiveness. This Systematization of Knowledge (SoK) initiative delves into the fundamental principles of existing hardware fuzzing, methodologies, and their applicability across diverse hardware designs. Additionally, it evaluates factors such as the utilization of golden reference models (GRMs), coverage metrics, and toolchains to gauge their potential for broader adoption, akin to traditional formal verification methods. Furthermore, this work examines the reliability of existing hardware fuzzing techniques in identifying vulnerabilities and identifies research gaps for future advancements in design verification techniques.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [81]
标题:  Comparing Explanation Faithfulness between Multilingual and Monolingual  Fine-tuned Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12809
作者:  Zhixue Zhao,  Nikolaos Aletras
备注:  Accepted at NAACL 2024 Main Conference
Abstract:In many real natural language processing application scenarios, practitioners not only aim to maximize predictive performance but also seek faithful explanations for the model predictions. Rationales and importance distribution given by feature attribution methods (FAs) provide insights into how different parts of the input contribute to a prediction. Previous studies have explored how different factors affect faithfulness, mainly in the context of monolingual English models. On the other hand, the differences in FA faithfulness between multilingual and monolingual models have yet to be explored. Our extensive experiments, covering five languages and five popular FAs, show that FA faithfulness varies between multilingual and monolingual models. We find that the larger the multilingual model, the less faithful the FAs are compared to its counterpart monolingual models.Our further analysis shows that the faithfulness disparity is potentially driven by the differences between model tokenizers. Our code is available: this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [82]
标题:  Freshness-aware Block Propagation Optimization in 6G-based Web 3.0: An  Evolutionary Game Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12807
作者:  Jinbo Wen,  Jiawen Kang,  Zehui Xiong,  Hongyang Du,  Zhaohui Yang,  Dusit Niyato,  Meng Shen,  Yutao Jiao,  Yang Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Driven by the aspiration to establish a decentralized digital economy, Web 3.0 is emerging as the fundamental technology for digital transformation. Incorporating the promising sixth-generation (6G) technology with large bandwidth and space-air-ground integrated coverage, 6G-based Web 3.0 holds great potential in empowering users with enhanced data control and facilitating secure peer-to-peer transactions, especially in consumer electronics, through the utilization of blockchain technologies. However, 6G-based Web 3.0 is still in its infancy, such as ensuring block freshness and optimizing block propagation to improve blockchain performance. In this paper, we develop a freshness-aware block propagation optimization framework for 6G-based Web 3.0. We first propose a novel metric called Age of Block Information (AoBI) based on the concept of age of information to quantify block freshness. To make block propagation optimization tractable, we classify miners into five different states and propose a block propagation model for public blockchains inspired by epidemic models. Moreover, considering that the miners are bounded rational, we propose an incentive mechanism based on the evolutionary game for block propagation to improve block propagation efficiency. Numerical results demonstrate that compared with other block propagation mechanisms, the proposed scheme has a higher block forwarding probability, which improves block propagation efficiency.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [83]
标题:  VisualCritic: Making LMMs Perceive Visual Quality Like Humans
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12806
作者:  Zhipeng Huang,  Zhizheng Zhang,  Yiting Lu,  Zheng-Jun Zha,  Zhibo Chen,  Baining Guo
备注:  
Abstract:At present, large multimodal models (LMMs) have exhibited impressive generalization capabilities in understanding and generating visual signals. However, they currently still lack sufficient capability to perceive low-level visual quality akin to human perception. Can LMMs achieve this and show the same degree of generalization in this regard? If so, not only could the versatility of LMMs be further enhanced, but also the challenge of poor cross-dataset performance in the field of visual quality assessment could be addressed. In this paper, we explore this question and provide the answer "Yes!". As the result of this initial exploration, we present VisualCritic, the first LMM for broad-spectrum image subjective quality assessment. VisualCritic can be used across diverse data right out of box, without any requirements of dataset-specific adaptation operations like conventional specialist models. As an instruction-following LMM, VisualCritic enables new capabilities of (1) quantitatively measuring the perceptual quality of given images in terms of their Mean Opinion Score (MOS), noisiness, colorfulness, sharpness, and other numerical indicators, (2) qualitatively evaluating visual quality and providing explainable descriptions, (3) discerning whether a given image is AI-generated or photographic. Extensive experiments demonstrate the efficacy of VisualCritic by comparing it with other open-source LMMs and conventional specialist models over both AI-generated and photographic images.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [84]
标题:  Contextual Moral Value Alignment Through Context-Based Aggregation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12805
作者:  Pierre Dognin,  Jesus Rios,  Ronny Luss,  Inkit Padhi,  Matthew D Riemer,  Miao Liu,  Prasanna Sattigeri,  Manish Nagireddy,  Kush R. Varshney,  Djallel Bouneffouf
备注:  
Abstract:Developing value-aligned AI agents is a complex undertaking and an ongoing challenge in the field of AI. Specifically within the domain of Large Language Models (LLMs), the capability to consolidate multiple independently trained dialogue agents, each aligned with a distinct moral value, into a unified system that can adapt to and be aligned with multiple moral values is of paramount importance. In this paper, we propose a system that does contextual moral value alignment based on contextual aggregation. Here, aggregation is defined as the process of integrating a subset of LLM responses that are best suited to respond to a user input, taking into account features extracted from the user's input. The proposed system shows better results in term of alignment to human value compared to the state of the art.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [85]
标题:  DreamDA: Generative Data Augmentation with Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12803
作者:  Yunxiang Fu,  Chaoqi Chen,  Yu Qiao,  Yizhou Yu
备注:  14 pages, 8 tables, 3 figures
Abstract:The acquisition of large-scale, high-quality data is a resource-intensive and time-consuming endeavor. Compared to conventional Data Augmentation (DA) techniques (e.g. cropping and rotation), exploiting prevailing diffusion models for data generation has received scant attention in classification tasks. Existing generative DA methods either inadequately bridge the domain gap between real-world and synthesized images, or inherently suffer from a lack of diversity. To solve these issues, this paper proposes a new classification-oriented framework DreamDA, which enables data synthesis and label generation by way of diffusion models. DreamDA generates diverse samples that adhere to the original data distribution by considering training images in the original data as seeds and perturbing their reverse diffusion process. In addition, since the labels of the generated data may not align with the labels of their corresponding seed images, we introduce a self-training paradigm for generating pseudo labels and training classifiers using the synthesized data. Extensive experiments across four tasks and five datasets demonstrate consistent improvements over strong baselines, revealing the efficacy of DreamDA in synthesizing high-quality and diverse images with accurate labels. Our code will be available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [86]
标题:  RelationVLM: Making Large Vision-Language Models Understand Visual  Relations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12801
作者:  Zhipeng Huang,  Zhizheng Zhang,  Zheng-Jun Zha,  Yan Lu,  Baining Guo
备注:  
Abstract:The development of Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) is striving to catch up with the success of Large Language Models (LLMs), yet it faces more challenges to be resolved. Very recent works enable LVLMs to localize object-level visual contents and ground text to them. Nonetheless, current LVLMs still struggle to precisely understand visual relations due to the lack of relevant data. In this work, we present RelationVLM, a large vision-language model capable of comprehending various levels and types of relations whether across multiple images or within a video. Specifically, we devise a multi-stage relation-aware training scheme and a series of corresponding data configuration strategies to bestow RelationVLM with the capabilities of understanding semantic relations, temporal associations and geometric transforms. Extensive case studies and quantitative evaluations show RelationVLM has strong capability in understanding such relations and emerges impressive in-context capability of reasoning from few-shot examples by comparison. This work fosters the advancements of LVLMs by enabling them to support a wider range of downstream applications toward artificial general intelligence.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [87]
标题:  Learning Neural Volumetric Pose Features for Camera Localization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12800
作者:  Jingyu Lin,  Jiaqi Gu,  Bojian Wu,  Lubin Fan,  Renjie Chen,  Ligang Liu,  Jieping Ye
备注:  14 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:We introduce a novel neural volumetric pose feature, termed PoseMap, designed to enhance camera localization by encapsulating the information between images and the associated camera poses. Our framework leverages an Absolute Pose Regression (APR) architecture, together with an augmented NeRF module. This integration not only facilitates the generation of novel views to enrich the training dataset but also enables the learning of effective pose features. Additionally, we extend our architecture for self-supervised online alignment, allowing our method to be used and fine-tuned for unlabelled images within a unified framework. Experiments demonstrate that our method achieves 14.28% and 20.51% performance gain on average in indoor and outdoor benchmark scenes, outperforming existing APR methods with state-of-the-art accuracy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [88]
标题:  Investigating Text Shortening Strategy in BERT: Truncation vs  Summarization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12799
作者:  Mirza Alim Mutasodirin,  Radityo Eko Prasojo
备注:  The 13th International Conference on Advanced Computer Science and Information Systems (ICACSIS 2021)
Abstract:The parallelism of Transformer-based models comes at the cost of their input max-length. Some studies proposed methods to overcome this limitation, but none of them reported the effectiveness of summarization as an alternative. In this study, we investigate the performance of document truncation and summarization in text classification tasks. Each of the two was investigated with several variations. This study also investigated how close their performances are to the performance of full-text. We used a dataset of summarization tasks based on Indonesian news articles (IndoSum) to do classification tests. This study shows how the summaries outperform the majority of truncation method variations and lose to only one. The best strategy obtained in this study is taking the head of the document. The second is extractive summarization. This study explains what happened to the result, leading to further research in order to exploit the potential of document summarization as a shortening alternative. The code and data used in this work are publicly available in this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [89]
标题:  Introducing Combi-Stations in Robotic Mobile Fulfilment Systems: A  Queueing-Theory-Based Efficiency Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12798
作者:  Lin Xie,  Sonja Otten
备注:  15 pages, 7 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1912.01782
Abstract:In the era of digital commerce, the surge in online shopping and the expectation for rapid delivery have placed unprecedented demands on warehouse operations. The traditional method of order fulfilment, where human order pickers traverse large storage areas to pick items, has become a bottleneck, consuming valuable time and resources. Robotic Mobile Fulfilment Systems (RMFS) offer a solution by using robots to transport storage racks directly to human-operated picking stations, eliminating the need for pickers to travel. This paper introduces combi-stations, a novel type of station that enables both item picking and replenishment, as opposed to traditional separate stations. We analyse the efficiency of combi-stations using queueing theory and demonstrate their potential to streamline warehouse operations. Our results suggest that combi-stations can reduce the number of robots required for stability and significantly reduce order turnover time, indicating a promising direction for future warehouse automation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [90]
标题:  Parallel Gaussian process with kernel approximation in CUDA
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12797
作者:  Davide Carminati
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces a parallel implementation in CUDA/C++ of the Gaussian process with a decomposed kernel. This recent formulation, introduced by Joukov and Kulić (2022), is characterized by an approximated -- but much smaller -- matrix to be inverted compared to plain Gaussian process. However, it exhibits a limitation when dealing with higher-dimensional samples which degrades execution times. The solution presented in this paper relies on parallelizing the computation of the predictive posterior statistics on a GPU using CUDA and its libraries. The CPU code and GPU code are then benchmarked on different CPU-GPU configurations to show the benefits of the parallel implementation on GPU over the CPU.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [91]
标题:  Importance sampling for rare event tracking within the ensemble Kalman  filtering framework
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12793
作者:  Nadhir Ben Rached,  Erik von Schwerin,  Gaukhar Shaimerdenova,  Raul Tempone
备注:  29 pages, 10 figures, 4 tables
Abstract:In this work we employ importance sampling (IS) techniques to track a small over-threshold probability of a running maximum associated with the solution of a stochastic differential equation (SDE) within the framework of ensemble Kalman filtering (EnKF). Between two observation times of the EnKF, we propose to use IS with respect to the initial condition of the SDE, IS with respect to the Wiener process via a stochastic optimal control formulation, and combined IS with respect to both initial condition and Wiener process. Both IS strategies require the approximation of the solution of Kolmogorov Backward equation (KBE) with boundary conditions. In multidimensional settings, we employ a Markovian projection dimension reduction technique to obtain an approximation of the solution of the KBE by just solving a one dimensional PDE. The proposed ideas are tested on two illustrative examples: Double Well SDE and Langevin dynamics, and showcase a significant variance reduction compared to the standard Monte Carlo method and another sampling-based IS technique, namely, multilevel cross entropy.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR)

**编号**: [92]
标题:  Morse Theory for the k-NN Distance Function
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12792
作者:  Yohai Reani,  Omer Bobrowski
备注:  
Abstract:We study the $k$-th nearest neighbor distance function from a finite point-set in $\mathbb{R}^d$. We provide a Morse theoretic framework to analyze the sub-level set topology. In particular, we present a simple combinatorial-geometric characterization for critical points and their indices, along with detailed information about the possible changes in homology at the critical levels. We conclude by computing the expected number of critical points for a homogeneous Poisson process. Our results deliver significant insights and tools for the analysis of persistent homology in order-$k$ Delaunay mosaics, and random $k$-fold coverage.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Algebraic Topology (math.AT); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [93]
标题:  DDSB: An Unsupervised and Training-free Method for Phase Detection in  Echocardiography
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12787
作者:  Zhenyu Bu,  Yang Liu,  Jiayu Huo,  Jingjing Peng,  Kaini Wang,  Guangquan Zhou,  Rachel Sparks,  Prokar Dasgupta,  Alejandro Granados,  Sebastien Ourselin
备注:  
Abstract:Accurate identification of End-Diastolic (ED) and End-Systolic (ES) frames is key for cardiac function assessment through echocardiography. However, traditional methods face several limitations: they require extensive amounts of data, extensive annotations by medical experts, significant training resources, and often lack robustness. Addressing these challenges, we proposed an unsupervised and training-free method, our novel approach leverages unsupervised segmentation to enhance fault tolerance against segmentation inaccuracies. By identifying anchor points and analyzing directional deformation, we effectively reduce dependence on the accuracy of initial segmentation images and enhance fault tolerance, all while improving robustness. Tested on Echo-dynamic and CAMUS datasets, our method achieves comparable accuracy to learning-based models without their associated drawbacks. The code is available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [94]
标题:  Total Disentanglement of Font Images into Style and Character Class  Features
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12784
作者:  Daichi Haraguchi,  Wataru Shimoda,  Kota Yamaguchi,  Seiichi Uchida
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we demonstrate a total disentanglement of font images. Total disentanglement is a neural network-based method for decomposing each font image nonlinearly and completely into its style and content (i.e., character class) features. It uses a simple but careful training procedure to extract the common style feature from all `A'-`Z' images in the same font and the common content feature from all `A' (or another class) images in different fonts. These disentangled features guarantee the reconstruction of the original font image. Various experiments have been conducted to understand the performance of total disentanglement. First, it is demonstrated that total disentanglement is achievable with very high accuracy; this is experimental proof of the long-standing open question, ``Does `A'-ness exist?'' Hofstadter (1985). Second, it is demonstrated that the disentangled features produced by total disentanglement apply to a variety of tasks, including font recognition, character recognition, and one-shot font image generation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [95]
标题:  ViTGaze: Gaze Following with Interaction Features in Vision Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12778
作者:  Yuehao Song,  Xinggang Wang,  Jingfeng Yao,  Wenyu Liu,  Jinglin Zhang,  Xiangmin Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Gaze following aims to interpret human-scene interactions by predicting the person's focal point of gaze. Prevailing approaches often use multi-modality inputs, most of which adopt a two-stage framework. Hence their performance highly depends on the previous prediction accuracy. Others use a single-modality approach with complex decoders, increasing network computational load. Inspired by the remarkable success of pre-trained plain Vision Transformers (ViTs), we introduce a novel single-modality gaze following framework, ViTGaze. In contrast to previous methods, ViTGaze creates a brand new gaze following framework based mainly on powerful encoders (dec. param. less than 1%). Our principal insight lies in that the inter-token interactions within self-attention can be transferred to interactions between humans and scenes. Leveraging this presumption, we formulate a framework consisting of a 4D interaction encoder and a 2D spatial guidance module to extract human-scene interaction information from self-attention maps. Furthermore, our investigation reveals that ViT with self-supervised pre-training exhibits an enhanced ability to extract correlated information. A large number of experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method. Our method achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance among all single-modality methods (3.4% improvement on AUC, 5.1% improvement on AP) and very comparable performance against multi-modality methods with 59% number of parameters less.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [96]
标题:  Discover and Mitigate Multiple Biased Subgroups in Image Classifiers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12777
作者:  Zeliang Zhang,  Mingqian Feng,  Zhiheng Li,  Chenliang Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Machine learning models can perform well on in-distribution data but often fail on biased subgroups that are underrepresented in the training data, hindering the robustness of models for reliable applications. Such subgroups are typically unknown due to the absence of subgroup labels. Discovering biased subgroups is the key to understanding models' failure modes and further improving models' robustness. Most previous works of subgroup discovery make an implicit assumption that models only underperform on a single biased subgroup, which does not hold on in-the-wild data where multiple biased subgroups exist. In this work, we propose Decomposition, Interpretation, and Mitigation (DIM), a novel method to address a more challenging but also more practical problem of discovering multiple biased subgroups in image classifiers. Our approach decomposes the image features into multiple components that represent multiple subgroups. This decomposition is achieved via a bilinear dimension reduction method, Partial Least Square (PLS), guided by useful supervision from the image classifier. We further interpret the semantic meaning of each subgroup component by generating natural language descriptions using vision-language foundation models. Finally, DIM mitigates multiple biased subgroups simultaneously via two strategies, including the data- and model-centric strategies. Extensive experiments on CIFAR-100 and Breeds datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of DIM in discovering and mitigating multiple biased subgroups. Furthermore, DIM uncovers the failure modes of the classifier on Hard ImageNet, showcasing its broader applicability to understanding model bias in image classifiers. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [97]
标题:  Automated Data Curation for Robust Language Model Fine-Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12776
作者:  Jiuhai Chen,  Jonas Mueller
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models have become the de facto approach to sequence-to-sequence text generation tasks, but for specialized tasks/domains, a pretrained LLM lacks specific capabilities to produce accurate or well-formatted responses. Supervised fine-tuning specializes a LLM by training it on dataset of example prompts with target responses, but real-world data tends to be noisy. While many fine-tuning algorithms exist, here we consider a \emph{data-centric AI} perspective on LLM fine-tuning, studying how to \emph{systematically} curate the training dataset to improve the LLM produced via \emph{any} fine-tuning algorithm. We introduce an automated data curation pipeline CLEAR (Confidence-based LLM Evaluation And Rectification) for instruction tuning datasets, that can be used with any LLM and fine-tuning procedure. CLEAR estimates which training data is low-quality and either filters or corrects it. Automatically identifying which data to filter or correct is done via LLM-derived confidence estimates, to ensure only confident modifications to the dataset. Unlike existing data curation techniques, CLEAR is a comprehensive framework that can improve a dataset (and trained model outputs) without additional fine-tuning computations. We don't assume access to a stronger LLM than the model being fine-tuned (e.g.\ relying on GPT-4 when fine-tuning GPT-3.5), to see whether CLEAR can meaningfully improve the capabilities of any LLM. Experiments reveal that CLEAR consistently improves the performance of fine-tuned models across many datasets and models (like GPT-3.5 and Llama2).
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [98]
标题:  Is open source software culture enough to make AI a common ?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12774
作者:  Robin Quillivic,  Salma Mesmoudi
备注:  in French language. JSR'23: Rochebrune Scientific Days 2023
Abstract:Language models (LM or LLM) are increasingly deployed in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) and its applications, but the question arises as to whether they can be a common resource managed and maintained by a community of users. Indeed, the dominance of private companies with exclusive access to massive data and language processing resources can create inequalities and biases in LM, as well as obstacles to innovation for those who do not have the same resources necessary for their implementation. In this contribution, we examine the concept of the commons and its relevance for thinking about LM. We highlight the potential benefits of treating the data and resources needed to create LMs as commons, including increased accessibility, equity, and transparency in the development and use of AI technologies. Finally, we present a case study centered on the Hugging Face platform, an open-source platform for deep learning designed to encourage collaboration and sharing among AI designers.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [99]
标题:  Multispectral Image Restoration by Generalized Opponent Transformation  Total Variation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12770
作者:  Zhantao Ma,  Michael K. Ng
备注:  
Abstract:Multispectral images (MSI) contain light information in different wavelengths of objects, which convey spectral-spatial information and help improve the performance of various image processing tasks. Numerous techniques have been created to extend the application of total variation regularization in restoring multispectral images, for example, based on channel coupling and adaptive total variation regularization. The primary contribution of this paper is to propose and develop a new multispectral total variation regularization in a generalized opponent transformation domain instead of the original multispectral image domain. Here opponent transformations for multispectral images are generalized from a well-known opponent transformation for color images. We will explore the properties of generalized opponent transformation total variation (GOTTV) regularization and the corresponding optimization formula for multispectral image restoration. To evaluate the effectiveness of the new GOTTV method, we provide numerical examples that showcase its superior performance compared to existing multispectral image total variation methods, using criteria such as MPSNR and MSSIM.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [100]
标题:  Understanding the Factors Influencing Self-Managed Enterprises of  Crowdworkers: A Comprehensive Review
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12769
作者:  Alexandre Prestes Uchoa,  Daniel Schneider
备注:  12 pages, 5 figures, ICEIS 2024 - 2024 International Conference on Enterprise Information Systems
Abstract:This paper investigates the shift in crowdsourcing towards self-managed enterprises of crowdworkers (SMECs), diverging from traditional platform-controlled models. It reviews the literature to understand the foundational aspects of this shift, focusing on identifying key factors that may explain the rise of SMECs, particularly concerning power dynamics and tensions between Online Labor Platforms (OLPs) and crowdworkers. The study aims to guide future research and inform policy and platform development, emphasizing the importance of fair labor practices in this evolving landscape.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [101]
标题:  ContextVis: Envision Contextual Learning and Interaction with Generative  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12768
作者:  Bo Shui,  Chufan Shi,  Yujiu Yang,  Xiaomei Nie
备注:  Accepted by HCII 2024
Abstract:ContextVis introduces a workflow by integrating generative models to create contextual learning materials. It aims to boost knowl- edge acquisition through the creation of resources with contextual cues. A case study on vocabulary learning demonstrates the effectiveness of generative models in developing educational resources that enrich lan- guage understanding and aid memory retention. The system combines an easy-to-use Dashboard for educators with an interactive Playground for learners, establishing a unified platform for content creation and in- teraction. Future work may expand to include a wider range of generative models, media formats, and customization features for educators.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [102]
标题:  Inter- and intra-uncertainty based feature aggregation model for  semi-supervised histopathology image segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12767
作者:  Qiangguo Jin,  Hui Cui,  Changming Sun,  Yang Song,  Jiangbin Zheng,  Leilei Cao,  Leyi Wei,  Ran Su
备注:  
Abstract:Acquiring pixel-level annotations is often limited in applications such as histology studies that require domain expertise. Various semi-supervised learning approaches have been developed to work with limited ground truth annotations, such as the popular teacher-student models. However, hierarchical prediction uncertainty within the student model (intra-uncertainty) and image prediction uncertainty (inter-uncertainty) have not been fully utilized by existing methods. To address these issues, we first propose a novel inter- and intra-uncertainty regularization method to measure and constrain both inter- and intra-inconsistencies in the teacher-student architecture. We also propose a new two-stage network with pseudo-mask guided feature aggregation (PG-FANet) as the segmentation model. The two-stage structure complements with the uncertainty regularization strategy to avoid introducing extra modules in solving uncertainties and the aggregation mechanisms enable multi-scale and multi-stage feature integration. Comprehensive experimental results over the MoNuSeg and CRAG datasets show that our PG-FANet outperforms other state-of-the-art methods and our semi-supervised learning framework yields competitive performance with a limited amount of labeled data.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [103]
标题:  NovelQA: A Benchmark for Long-Range Novel Question Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12766
作者:  Cunxiang Wang,  Ruoxi Ning,  Boqi Pan,  Tonghui Wu,  Qipeng Guo,  Cheng Deng,  Guangsheng Bao,  Qian Wang,  Yue Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has introduced a new frontier in natural language processing, particularly in understanding and processing long-context information. However, the evaluation of these models' long-context abilities remains a challenge due to the limitations of current benchmarks. To address this gap, we introduce NovelQA, a benchmark specifically designed to test the capabilities of LLMs with extended texts. Constructed from English novels, NovelQA offers a unique blend of complexity, length, and narrative coherence, making it an ideal tool for assessing deep textual understanding in LLMs. This paper presents the design and construction of NovelQA, highlighting its manual annotation, and diverse question types. Our evaluation of Long-context LLMs on NovelQA reveals significant insights into the models' performance, particularly emphasizing the challenges they face with multi-hop reasoning, detail-oriented questions, and extremely long input with more than 100,000 tokens. The results underscore the necessity for further advancements in LLMs to improve their long-context comprehension and computational literary studies.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [104]
标题:  Neural Parameter Regression for Explicit Representations of PDE Solution  Operators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12764
作者:  Konrad Mundinger,  Max Zimmer,  Sebastian Pokutta
备注:  ICLR24 Workshop AI4Differential Equations In Science, 15 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables, 1 algorithm
Abstract:We introduce Neural Parameter Regression (NPR), a novel framework specifically developed for learning solution operators in Partial Differential Equations (PDEs). Tailored for operator learning, this approach surpasses traditional DeepONets (Lu et al., 2021) by employing Physics-Informed Neural Network (PINN, Raissi et al., 2019) techniques to regress Neural Network (NN) parameters. By parametrizing each solution based on specific initial conditions, it effectively approximates a mapping between function spaces. Our method enhances parameter efficiency by incorporating low-rank matrices, thereby boosting computational efficiency and scalability. The framework shows remarkable adaptability to new initial and boundary conditions, allowing for rapid fine-tuning and inference, even in cases of out-of-distribution examples.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [105]
标题:  BTGenBot: Behavior Tree Generation for Robotic Tasks with Lightweight  LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12761
作者:  Riccardo Andrea Izzo,  Gianluca Bardaro,  Matteo Matteucci
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents a novel approach to generating behavior trees for robots using lightweight large language models (LLMs) with a maximum of 7 billion parameters. The study demonstrates that it is possible to achieve satisfying results with compact LLMs when fine-tuned on a specific dataset. The key contributions of this research include the creation of a fine-tuning dataset based on existing behavior trees using GPT-3.5 and a comprehensive comparison of multiple LLMs (namely llama2, llama-chat, and code-llama) across nine distinct tasks. To be thorough, we evaluated the generated behavior trees using static syntactical analysis, a validation system, a simulated environment, and a real robot. Furthermore, this work opens the possibility of deploying such solutions directly on the robot, enhancing its practical applicability. Findings from this study demonstrate the potential of LLMs with a limited number of parameters in generating effective and efficient robot behaviors.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [106]
标题:  WaveFace: Authentic Face Restoration with Efficient Frequency Recovery
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12760
作者:  Yunqi Miao,  Jiankang Deng,  Jungong Han
备注:  
Abstract:Although diffusion models are rising as a powerful solution for blind face restoration, they are criticized for two problems: 1) slow training and inference speed, and 2) failure in preserving identity and recovering fine-grained facial details. In this work, we propose WaveFace to solve the problems in the frequency domain, where low- and high-frequency components decomposed by wavelet transformation are considered individually to maximize authenticity as well as efficiency. The diffusion model is applied to recover the low-frequency component only, which presents general information of the original image but 1/16 in size. To preserve the original identity, the generation is conditioned on the low-frequency component of low-quality images at each denoising step. Meanwhile, high-frequency components at multiple decomposition levels are handled by a unified network, which recovers complex facial details in a single step. Evaluations on four benchmark datasets show that: 1) WaveFace outperforms state-of-the-art methods in authenticity, especially in terms of identity preservation, and 2) authentic images are restored with the efficiency 10x faster than existing diffusion model-based BFR methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [107]
标题:  Developing Algorithms for the Internet of Flying Things Through  Environments With Varying Degrees of Realism
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12753
作者:  Thiago de Souza Lamenza,  Josef Kamysek,  Bruno Jose Olivieri de Souza,  Markus Endler
备注:  11 pages
Abstract:This work discusses the benefits of having multiple simulated environments with different degrees of realism for the development of algorithms in scenarios populated by autonomous nodes capable of communication and mobility. This approach aids the development experience and generates robust algorithms. It also proposes GrADyS-SIM NextGen as a solution that enables development on a single programming language and toolset over multiple environments with varying levels of realism. Finally, we illustrate the usefulness of this approach with a toy problem that makes use of the simulation framework, taking advantage of the proposed environments to iteratively develop a robust solution.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [108]
标题:  Sebastian, Basti, Wastl?! Recognizing Named Entities in Bavarian  Dialectal Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12749
作者:  Siyao Peng,  Zihang Sun,  Huangyan Shan,  Marie Kolm,  Verena Blaschke,  Ekaterina Artemova,  Barbara Plank
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Named Entity Recognition (NER) is a fundamental task to extract key information from texts, but annotated resources are scarce for dialects. This paper introduces the first dialectal NER dataset for German, BarNER, with 161K tokens annotated on Bavarian Wikipedia articles (bar-wiki) and tweets (bar-tweet), using a schema adapted from German CoNLL 2006 and GermEval. The Bavarian dialect differs from standard German in lexical distribution, syntactic construction, and entity information. We conduct in-domain, cross-domain, sequential, and joint experiments on two Bavarian and three German corpora and present the first comprehensive NER results on Bavarian. Incorporating knowledge from the larger German NER (sub-)datasets notably improves on bar-wiki and moderately on bar-tweet. Inversely, training first on Bavarian contributes slightly to the seminal German CoNLL 2006 corpus. Moreover, with gold dialect labels on Bavarian tweets, we assess multi-task learning between five NER and two Bavarian-German dialect identification tasks and achieve NER SOTA on bar-wiki. We substantiate the necessity of our low-resource BarNER corpus and the importance of diversity in dialects, genres, and topics in enhancing model performance.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [109]
标题:  Building Brain Tumor Segmentation Networks with User-Assisted Filter  Estimation and Selection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12748
作者:  Matheus A. Cerqueira,  Flávia Sprenger,  Bernardo C. A. Teixeira,  Alexandre X. Falcão
备注:  10 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables, 24 references, manuscript of conference paper
Abstract:Brain tumor image segmentation is a challenging research topic in which deep-learning models have presented the best results. However, the traditional way of training those models from many pre-annotated images leaves several unanswered questions. Hence methodologies, such as Feature Learning from Image Markers (FLIM), have involved an expert in the learning loop to reduce human effort in data annotation and build models sufficiently deep for a given problem. FLIM has been successfully used to create encoders, estimating the filters of all convolutional layers from patches centered at marker voxels. In this work, we present Multi-Step (MS) FLIM - a user-assisted approach to estimating and selecting the most relevant filters from multiple FLIM executions. MS-FLIM is used only for the first convolutional layer, and the results already indicate improvement over FLIM. For evaluation, we build a simple U-shaped encoder-decoder network, named sU-Net, for glioblastoma segmentation using T1Gd and FLAIR MRI scans, varying the encoder's training method, using FLIM, MS-FLIM, and backpropagation algorithm. Also, we compared these sU-Nets with two State-Of-The-Art (SOTA) deep-learning models using two datasets. The results show that the sU-Net based on MS-FLIM outperforms the other training methods and achieves effectiveness within the standard deviations of the SOTA models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [110]
标题:  N-Modal Contrastive Losses with Applications to Social Media Data in  Trimodal Space
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12747
作者:  William Theisen,  Walter Scheirer
备注:  
Abstract:The social media landscape of conflict dynamics has grown increasingly multi-modal. Recent advancements in model architectures such as CLIP have enabled researchers to begin studying the interplay between the modalities of text and images in a shared latent space. However, CLIP models fail to handle situations on social media when modalities present in a post expand above two. Social media dynamics often require understanding the interplay between not only text and images, but video as well. In this paper we explore an extension of the contrastive loss function to allow for any number of modalities, and demonstrate its usefulness in trimodal spaces on social media. By extending CLIP into three dimensions we can further aide understanding social media landscapes where all three modalities are present (an increasingly common situation). We use a newly collected public data set of Telegram posts containing all three modalities to train, and then demonstrate the usefulness of, a trimodal model in two OSINT scenarios: classifying a social media artifact post as either pro-Russian or pro-Ukrainian and identifying which account a given artifact originated from. While trimodal CLIP models have been explored before (though not on social media data), we also display a novel quadmodal CLIP model. This model can learn the interplay between text, image, video, and audio. We demonstrate new state-of-the-art baseline results on retrieval for quadmodel models moving forward.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [111]
标题:  Instructing Large Language Models to Identify and Ignore Irrelevant  Conditions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12744
作者:  Zhenyu Wu,  Chao Shen,  Meng Jiang
备注:  NAACL 2024 - Camera Ready
Abstract:Math word problem (MWP) solving requires generating a reasoning path based on a given problem description that often contains irrelevant conditions. Existing chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting methods elicited multi-step reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs) to solve MWPs. However, they were seriously confused by the irrelevant conditions, resulting in low accuracy. In this paper, we propose a novel approach named I$^3$C that instructs LLMs to identify and ignore irrelevant conditions. It identifies a set of irrelevant condition candidates that have a weak semantic relevance with the question. Then it prompts LLMs to verify the irrelevant conditions. Lastly it instructs the LLMs with the verification on relevant and irrelevant conditions to avoid confusion and improve reasoning paths. Moreover, we propose to select (problem, reasoning paths) pairs as demonstrations to enhance I$^3$C with few-shot reasoning. We develop I$^3$C-Select that selects the most confusing problems based on the semantic relevance measurement. We conduct extensive experiments on eight MWP datasets. I$^3$C can be combined with any CoT prompting methods to improve the performance of solving MWPs. Notably, with GPT-3.5-Turbo and I$^3$C-Select, we achieve an accuracy of 96.0 and 94.1 on GSM-IC2-1K and GSM-ICM-1K, respectively, significantly outperforming the state-of-the-art few-shot prompting method Complex-CoT by +11.7 and +11.1. Our implementation is made publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [112]
标题:  Towards Controllable Face Generation with Semantic Latent Diffusion  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12743
作者:  Alex Ergasti,  Claudio Ferrari,  Tomaso Fontanini,  Massimo Bertozzi,  Andrea Prati
备注:  
Abstract:Semantic Image Synthesis (SIS) is among the most popular and effective techniques in the field of face generation and editing, thanks to its good generation quality and the versatility is brings along. Recent works attempted to go beyond the standard GAN-based framework, and started to explore Diffusion Models (DMs) for this task as these stand out with respect to GANs in terms of both quality and diversity. On the other hand, DMs lack in fine-grained controllability and reproducibility. To address that, in this paper we propose a SIS framework based on a novel Latent Diffusion Model architecture for human face generation and editing that is both able to reproduce and manipulate a real reference image and generate diversity-driven results. The proposed system utilizes both SPADE normalization and cross-attention layers to merge shape and style information and, by doing so, allows for a precise control over each of the semantic parts of the human face. This was not possible with previous methods in the state of the art. Finally, we performed an extensive set of experiments to prove that our model surpasses current state of the art, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [113]
标题:  Path Planning in a dynamic environment using Spherical Particle Swarm  Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12739
作者:  Mohssen E. Elshaar,  Mohammed R. Elbalshy,  A. Hussien,  Mohammed Abido
备注:  Accepted as conference paper in IEEE WCCI 2024
Abstract:Efficiently planning an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) path is crucial, especially in dynamic settings where potential threats are prevalent. A Dynamic Path Planner (DPP) for UAV using the Spherical Vector-based Particle Swarm Optimisation (SPSO) technique is proposed in this study. The UAV is supposed to go from a starting point to an end point through an optimal path according to some flight criteria. Path length, Safety, Attitude and Path Smoothness are all taken into account upon deciding how an optimal path should be. The path is constructed as a set of way-points that stands as re-planning checkpoints. At each path way-point, threats are allowed some constrained random motion, where their exact positions are updated and fed to the SPSO-solver. Four test scenarios are carried out using real digital elevation models. Each test gives different priorities to path length and safety, in order to show how well the SPSO-DPP is capable of generating a safe yet efficient path segments. Finally, a comparison is made to reveal the persistent overall superior performance of the SPSO, in a dynamic environment, over both the Particle Swarm Optimisation (PSO) and the Genetic Algorithm (GA). The methods are compared directly, by averaging costs over multiple runs, and by considering different challenging levels of obstacle motion. SPSO outperformed both PSO and GA, showcasing cost reductions ranging from 330\% to 675\% compared to both algorithms.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [114]
标题:  Navigating Compiler Errors with AI Assistance - A Study of GPT Hints in  an Introductory Programming Course
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12737
作者:  Maciej Pankiewicz,  Ryan S. Baker
备注:  Accepted at ITiCSE 2024
Abstract:We examined the efficacy of AI-assisted learning in an introductory programming course at the university level by using a GPT-4 model to generate personalized hints for compiler errors within a platform for automated assessment of programming assignments. The control group had no access to GPT hints. In the experimental condition GPT hints were provided when a compiler error was detected, for the first half of the problems in each module. For the latter half of the module, hints were disabled. Students highly rated the usefulness of GPT hints. In affect surveys, the experimental group reported significantly higher levels of focus and lower levels of confrustion (confusion and frustration) than the control group. For the six most commonly occurring error types we observed mixed results in terms of performance when access to GPT hints was enabled for the experimental group. However, in the absence of GPT hints, the experimental group's performance surpassed the control group for five out of the six error types.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [115]
标题:  Towards Multimodal In-Context Learning for Vision & Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12736
作者:  Sivan Doveh,  Shaked Perek,  M. Jehanzeb Mirza,  Amit Alfassy,  Assaf Arbelle,  Shimon Ullman,  Leonid Karlinsky
备注:  
Abstract:Inspired by the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) that can truly understand human language, significant progress has been made in aligning other, non-language, modalities to be `understandable' by an LLM, primarily via converting their samples into a sequence of embedded language-like tokens directly fed into the LLM (decoder) input stream. However, so far limited attention has been given to transferring (and evaluating) one of the core LLM capabilities to the emerging VLMs, namely the In-Context Learning (ICL) ability, or in other words to guide VLMs to desired target downstream tasks or output structure using in-context image+text demonstrations. In this work, we dive deeper into analyzing the capabilities of some of the state-of-the-art VLMs to follow ICL instructions, discovering them to be somewhat lacking. We discover that even models that underwent large-scale mixed modality pre-training and were implicitly guided to make use of interleaved image and text information (intended to consume helpful context from multiple images) under-perform when prompted with few-shot (ICL) demonstrations, likely due to their lack of `direct' ICL instruction tuning. To test this conjecture, we propose a simple, yet surprisingly effective, strategy of extending a common VLM alignment framework with ICL support, methodology, and curriculum. We explore, analyze, and provide insights into effective data mixes, leading up to a significant 21.03% (and 11.3% on average) ICL performance boost over the strongest VLM baselines and a variety of ICL benchmarks. We also contribute new benchmarks for ICL evaluation in VLMs and discuss their advantages over the prior art.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [116]
标题:  To blow-up or not to blow-up for a granular kinetic equation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12735
作者:  José A. Carrillo,  Ruiwen Shu,  Li Wang,  Wuzhe Xu
备注:  
Abstract:A simplified kinetic description of rapid granular media leads to a nonlocal Vlasov-type equation with a convolution integral operator that is of the same form as the continuity equations for aggregation-diffusion macroscopic dynamics. While the singular behavior of these nonlinear continuity equations is well studied in the literature, the extension to the corresponding granular kinetic equation is highly nontrivial. The main question is whether the singularity formed in velocity direction will be enhanced or mitigated by the shear in phase space due to free transport. We present a preliminary study through a meticulous numerical investigation and heuristic arguments. We have numerically developed a structure-preserving method with adaptive mesh refinement that can effectively capture potential blow-up behavior in the solution for granular kinetic equations. We have analytically constructed a finite-time blow-up infinite mass solution and discussed how this can provide insights into the finite mass scenario.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)

**编号**: [117]
标题:  Exact and Heuristic Computation of the Scanwidth of Directed Acyclic  Graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12734
作者:  Niels Holtgrefe,  Leo van Iersel,  Mark Jones
备注:  32 pages, 15 figures
Abstract:To measure the tree-likeness of a directed acyclic graph (DAG), a new width parameter that considers the directions of the arcs was recently introduced: scanwidth. We present the first algorithm that efficiently computes the exact scanwidth of general DAGs. For DAGs with one root and scanwidth $k$ it runs in $O(k \cdot n^k \cdot m)$ time. The algorithm also functions as an FPT algorithm with complexity $O(2^{4 \ell - 1} \cdot \ell \cdot n + n^2)$ for phylogenetic networks of level-$\ell$, a type of DAG used to depict evolutionary relationships among species. Our algorithm performs well in practice, being able to compute the scanwidth of synthetic networks up to 30 reticulations and 100 leaves within 500 seconds. Furthermore, we propose a heuristic that obtains an average practical approximation ratio of 1.5 on these networks. While we prove that the scanwidth is bounded from below by the treewidth of the underlying undirected graph, experiments suggest that for networks the parameters are close in practice.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [118]
标题:  Small Scale Reflection for the Working Lean User
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12733
作者:  Vladimir Gladshtein,  George Pîrlea,  Ilya Sergey
备注:  
Abstract:We present the design and implementation of the Small Scale Reflection proof methodology and tactic language (a.k.a. SSR) for the Lean 4 proof assistant. Like its Coq predecessor SSReflect, our Lean 4 implementation, dubbed LeanSSR, provides powerful rewriting principles and means for effective management of hypotheses in the proof context. Unlike SSReflect for Coq, LeanSSR does not require explicit switching between the logical and symbolic representation of a goal, allowing for even more concise proof scripts that seamlessly combine deduction steps with proofs by computation. In this paper, we first provide a gentle introduction to the principles of structuring mechanised proofs using LeanSSR. Next, we show how the native support for metaprogramming in Lean 4 makes it possible to develop LeanSSR entirely within the proof assistant, greatly improving the overall experience of both tactic implementers and proof engineers. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of LeanSSR by conducting two case studies: (a) porting a collection of Coq lemmas about sequences from the widely used Mathematical Components library and (b) reimplementing proofs in the finite set library of Lean's mathlib4. Both case studies show significant reduction in proof sizes.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Software (cs.MS)

**编号**: [119]
标题:  What Does Evaluation of Explainable Artificial Intelligence Actually  Tell Us? A Case for Compositional and Contextual Validation of XAI Building  Blocks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12730
作者:  Kacper Sokol,  Julia E. Vogt
备注:  Published in Extended Abstracts of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA '24)
Abstract:Despite significant progress, evaluation of explainable artificial intelligence remains elusive and challenging. In this paper we propose a fine-grained validation framework that is not overly reliant on any one facet of these sociotechnical systems, and that recognises their inherent modular structure: technical building blocks, user-facing explanatory artefacts and social communication protocols. While we concur that user studies are invaluable in assessing the quality and effectiveness of explanation presentation and delivery strategies from the explainees' perspective in a particular deployment context, the underlying explanation generation mechanisms require a separate, predominantly algorithmic validation strategy that accounts for the technical and human-centred desiderata of their (numerical) outputs. Such a comprehensive sociotechnical utility-based evaluation framework could allow to systematically reason about the properties and downstream influence of different building blocks from which explainable artificial intelligence systems are composed -- accounting for a diverse range of their engineering and social aspects -- in view of the anticipated use case.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [120]
标题:  Diffusion-Driven Self-Supervised Learning for Shape Reconstruction and  Pose Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12728
作者:  Jingtao Sun,  Yaonan Wang,  Mingtao Feng,  Chao Ding,  Mike Zheng Shou,  Ajmal Saeed Mian
备注:  
Abstract:Fully-supervised category-level pose estimation aims to determine the 6-DoF poses of unseen instances from known categories, requiring expensive mannual labeling costs. Recently, various self-supervised category-level pose estimation methods have been proposed to reduce the requirement of the annotated datasets. However, most methods rely on synthetic data or 3D CAD model for self-supervised training, and they are typically limited to addressing single-object pose problems without considering multi-objective tasks or shape reconstruction. To overcome these challenges and limitations, we introduce a diffusion-driven self-supervised network for multi-object shape reconstruction and categorical pose estimation, only leveraging the shape priors. Specifically, to capture the SE(3)-equivariant pose features and 3D scale-invariant shape information, we present a Prior-Aware Pyramid 3D Point Transformer in our network. This module adopts a point convolutional layer with radial-kernels for pose-aware learning and a 3D scale-invariant graph convolution layer for object-level shape representation, respectively. Furthermore, we introduce a pretrain-to-refine self-supervised training paradigm to train our network. It enables proposed network to capture the associations between shape priors and observations, addressing the challenge of intra-class shape variations by utilising the diffusion mechanism. Extensive experiments conducted on four public datasets and a self-built dataset demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art self-supervised category-level baselines and even surpasses some fully-supervised instance-level and category-level methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [121]
标题:  Python Fuzzing for Trustworthy Machine Learning Frameworks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12723
作者:  Ilya Yegorov,  Eli Kobrin,  Darya Parygina,  Alexey Vishnyakov,  Andrey Fedotov
备注:  
Abstract:Ensuring the security and reliability of machine learning frameworks is crucial for building trustworthy AI-based systems. Fuzzing, a popular technique in secure software development lifecycle (SSDLC), can be used to develop secure and robust software. Popular machine learning frameworks such as PyTorch and TensorFlow are complex and written in multiple programming languages including C/C++ and Python. We propose a dynamic analysis pipeline for Python projects using the Sydr-Fuzz toolset. Our pipeline includes fuzzing, corpus minimization, crash triaging, and coverage collection. Crash triaging and severity estimation are important steps to ensure that the most critical vulnerabilities are addressed promptly. Furthermore, the proposed pipeline is integrated in GitLab CI. To identify the most vulnerable parts of the machine learning frameworks, we analyze their potential attack surfaces and develop fuzz targets for PyTorch, TensorFlow, and related projects such as h5py. Applying our dynamic analysis pipeline to these targets, we were able to discover 3 new bugs and propose fixes for them.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [122]
标题:  HUGS: Holistic Urban 3D Scene Understanding via Gaussian Splatting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12722
作者:  Hongyu Zhou,  Jiahao Shao,  Lu Xu,  Dongfeng Bai,  Weichao Qiu,  Bingbing Liu,  Yue Wang,  Andreas Geiger,  Yiyi Liao
备注:  Our project page is at this https URL
Abstract:Holistic understanding of urban scenes based on RGB images is a challenging yet important problem. It encompasses understanding both the geometry and appearance to enable novel view synthesis, parsing semantic labels, and tracking moving objects. Despite considerable progress, existing approaches often focus on specific aspects of this task and require additional inputs such as LiDAR scans or manually annotated 3D bounding boxes. In this paper, we introduce a novel pipeline that utilizes 3D Gaussian Splatting for holistic urban scene understanding. Our main idea involves the joint optimization of geometry, appearance, semantics, and motion using a combination of static and dynamic 3D Gaussians, where moving object poses are regularized via physical constraints. Our approach offers the ability to render new viewpoints in real-time, yielding 2D and 3D semantic information with high accuracy, and reconstruct dynamic scenes, even in scenarios where 3D bounding box detection are highly noisy. Experimental results on KITTI, KITTI-360, and Virtual KITTI 2 demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [123]
标题:  CLASSLA-web: Comparable Web Corpora of South Slavic Languages Enriched  with Linguistic and Genre Annotation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12721
作者:  Nikola Ljubešić,  Taja Kuzman
备注:  Accepted to the LREC-COLING 2024 conference
Abstract:This paper presents a collection of highly comparable web corpora of Slovenian, Croatian, Bosnian, Montenegrin, Serbian, Macedonian, and Bulgarian, covering thereby the whole spectrum of official languages in the South Slavic language space. The collection of these corpora comprises a total of 13 billion tokens of texts from 26 million documents. The comparability of the corpora is ensured by a comparable crawling setup and the usage of identical crawling and post-processing technology. All the corpora were linguistically annotated with the state-of-the-art CLASSLA-Stanza linguistic processing pipeline, and enriched with document-level genre information via the Transformer-based multilingual X-GENRE classifier, which further enhances comparability at the level of linguistic annotation and metadata enrichment. The genre-focused analysis of the resulting corpora shows a rather consistent distribution of genres throughout the seven corpora, with variations in the most prominent genre categories being well-explained by the economic strength of each language community. A comparison of the distribution of genre categories across the corpora indicates that web corpora from less developed countries primarily consist of news articles. Conversely, web corpora from economically more developed countries exhibit a smaller proportion of news content, with a greater presence of promotional and opinionated texts.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [124]
标题:  Shared Autonomy via Variable Impedance Control and Virtual Potential  Fields for Encoding Human Demonstration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12720
作者:  Shail Jadav,  Johannes Heidersberger,  Christian Ott,  Dongheui Lee
备注:  Accepted to ICRA 2024
Abstract:This article introduces a framework for complex human-robot collaboration tasks, such as the co-manufacturing of furniture. For these tasks, it is essential to encode tasks from human demonstration and reproduce these skills in a compliant and safe manner. Therefore, two key components are addressed in this work: motion generation and shared autonomy. We propose a motion generator based on a time-invariant potential field, capable of encoding wrench profiles, complex and closed-loop trajectories, and additionally incorporates obstacle avoidance. Additionally, the paper addresses shared autonomy (SA) which enables synergetic collaboration between human operators and robots by dynamically allocating authority. Variable impedance control (VIC) and force control are employed, where impedance and wrench are adapted based on the human-robot autonomy factor derived from interaction forces. System passivity is ensured by an energy-tank based task passivation strategy. The framework's efficacy is validated through simulations and an experimental study employing a Franka Emika Research 3 robot.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [125]
标题:  Bilevel Hypergraph Networks for Multi-Modal Alzheimer's Diagnosis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12719
作者:  Angelica I. Aviles-Rivero,  Chun-Wun Cheng,  Zhongying Deng,  Zoe Kourtzi,  Carola-Bibiane Schönlieb
备注:  
Abstract:Early detection of Alzheimer's disease's precursor stages is imperative for significantly enhancing patient outcomes and quality of life. This challenge is tackled through a semi-supervised multi-modal diagnosis framework. In particular, we introduce a new hypergraph framework that enables higher-order relations between multi-modal data, while utilising minimal labels. We first introduce a bilevel hypergraph optimisation framework that jointly learns a graph augmentation policy and a semi-supervised classifier. This dual learning strategy is hypothesised to enhance the robustness and generalisation capabilities of the model by fostering new pathways for information propagation. Secondly, we introduce a novel strategy for generating pseudo-labels more effectively via a gradient-driven flow. Our experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of our framework over current techniques in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [126]
标题:  Survey of Methods, Resources, and Formats for Teaching Constraint  Programming
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12717
作者:  Tejas Santanam,  Helmut Simonis
备注:  44 pages, 17 figures
Abstract:This paper provides an overview of the state of teaching for Constraint Programming, based on a survey of the community for the 2023 Workshop on Teaching Constraint Programming at the CP 2023 conference in Toronto. The paper presents the results of the survey, as well as lists of books, video courses and other tutorial materials for teaching Constraint Programming. The paper serves as a single location for current and public information on course resources, topics, formats, and methods.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [127]
标题:  A New Reduction Method from Multivariate Polynomials to Univariate  Polynomials
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12716
作者:  Cancan Wang,  Ming Su,  Gang Wang,  Qingpo Zhang
备注:  15 pages
Abstract:Polynomial multiplication is a fundamental problem in symbolic computation. There are efficient methods for the multiplication of two univariate polynomials. However, there is rarely efficiently nontrivial method for the multiplication of two multivariate polynomials. Therefore, we consider a new multiplication mechanism that involves a) reversibly reducing multivariate polynomials into univariate polynomials, b) calculating the product of the derived univariate polynomials by the Toom-Cook or FFT algorithm, and c) correctly recovering the product of multivariate polynomials from the product of two univariate polynomials. This work focuses on step a), expecting the degrees of the derived univariate polynomials to be as small as possible. We propose iterative Kronecker substitution, where smaller substitution exponents are selected instead of standard Kronecker substitution. We also apply the Chinese remainder theorem to polynomial reduction and find its advantages in some cases. Afterwards, we provide a hybrid reduction combining the advantages of both reduction methods. Moreover, we compare these reduction methods in terms of lower and upper bounds of the degree of the product of two derived univariate polynomials, and their computational complexities. With randomly generated multivariate polynomials, experiments show that the degree of the product of two univariate polynomials derived from the hybrid reduction can be reduced even to approximately 3% that resulting from the standard Kronecker substitution, implying an efficient subsequent multiplication of two univariate polynomials.
Subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC)

**编号**: [128]
标题:  Addressing Source Scale Bias via Image Warping for Domain Adaptation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12712
作者:  Shen Zheng,  Anurag Ghosh,  Srinivasa G. Narasimhan
备注:  
Abstract:In visual recognition, scale bias is a key challenge due to the imbalance of object and image size distribution inherent in real scene datasets. Conventional solutions involve injecting scale invariance priors, oversampling the dataset at different scales during training, or adjusting scale at inference. While these strategies mitigate scale bias to some extent, their ability to adapt across diverse datasets is limited. Besides, they increase computational load during training and latency during inference. In this work, we use adaptive attentional processing -- oversampling salient object regions by warping images in-place during training. Discovering that shifting the source scale distribution improves backbone features, we developed a instance-level warping guidance aimed at object region sampling to mitigate source scale bias in domain adaptation. Our approach improves adaptation across geographies, lighting and weather conditions, is agnostic to the task, domain adaptation algorithm, saliency guidance, and underlying model architecture. Highlights include +6.1 mAP50 for BDD100K Clear $\rightarrow$ DENSE Foggy, +3.7 mAP50 for BDD100K Day $\rightarrow$ Night, +3.0 mAP50 for BDD100K Clear $\rightarrow$ Rainy, and +6.3 mIoU for Cityscapes $\rightarrow$ ACDC. Our approach adds minimal memory during training and has no additional latency at inference time. Please see Appendix for more results and analysis.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [129]
标题:  Selective, Interpretable, and Motion Consistent Privacy Attribute  Obfuscation for Action Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12710
作者:  Filip Ilic,  He Zhao,  Thomas Pock,  Richard P. Wildes
备注:  
Abstract:Concerns for the privacy of individuals captured in public imagery have led to privacy-preserving action recognition. Existing approaches often suffer from issues arising through obfuscation being applied globally and a lack of interpretability. Global obfuscation hides privacy sensitive regions, but also contextual regions important for action recognition. Lack of interpretability erodes trust in these new technologies. We highlight the limitations of current paradigms and propose a solution: Human selected privacy templates that yield interpretability by design, an obfuscation scheme that selectively hides attributes and also induces temporal consistency, which is important in action recognition. Our approach is architecture agnostic and directly modifies input imagery, while existing approaches generally require architecture training. Our approach offers more flexibility, as no retraining is required, and outperforms alternatives on three widely used datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [130]
标题:  Selective Domain-Invariant Feature for Generalizable Deepfake Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12707
作者:  Yingxin Lai,  Guoqing Yang Yifan He,  Zhiming Luo,  Shaozi Li
备注:  Accepted by ICASSP 2024
Abstract:With diverse presentation forgery methods emerging continually, detecting the authenticity of images has drawn growing attention. Although existing methods have achieved impressive accuracy in training dataset detection, they still perform poorly in the unseen domain and suffer from forgery of irrelevant information such as background and identity, affecting generalizability. To solve this problem, we proposed a novel framework Selective Domain-Invariant Feature (SDIF), which reduces the sensitivity to face forgery by fusing content features and styles. Specifically, we first use a Farthest-Point Sampling (FPS) training strategy to construct a task-relevant style sample representation space for fusing with content features. Then, we propose a dynamic feature extraction module to generate features with diverse styles to improve the performance and effectiveness of the feature extractor. Finally, a domain separation strategy is used to retain domain-related features to help distinguish between real and fake faces. Both qualitative and quantitative results in existing benchmarks and proposals demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [131]
标题:  AnimateDiff-Lightning: Cross-Model Diffusion Distillation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12706
作者:  Shanchuan Lin,  Xiao Yang
备注:  
Abstract:We present AnimateDiff-Lightning for lightning-fast video generation. Our model uses progressive adversarial diffusion distillation to achieve new state-of-the-art in few-step video generation. We discuss our modifications to adapt it for the video modality. Furthermore, we propose to simultaneously distill the probability flow of multiple base diffusion models, resulting in a single distilled motion module with broader style compatibility. We are pleased to release our distilled AnimateDiff-Lightning model for the community's use.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [132]
标题:  The ultrametric backbone is the union of all minimum spanning forests
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12705
作者:  Jordan C Rozum,  Luis M Rocha
备注:  10 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:Minimum spanning trees and forests are powerful sparsification techniques that remove cycles from weighted graphs to minimize total edge weight while preserving node connectivity. They have applications in computer science, network science, and graph theory. Despite their utility and ubiquity, they have several limitations, including that they are only defined for undirected networks, they significantly alter dynamics on networks, and they do not generally preserve important network features such as shortest distances, shortest path distribution, and community structure. In contrast, distance backbones, which are subgraphs formed by all edges that obey a generalized triangle inequality, are well defined in both directed and undirected graphs and preserve those and other important network features. The backbone of a graph is defined with respect to a specified path-length operator that aggregates weights along a path to define its length, thereby associating a cost to indirect connections. The backbone is the union of all shortest paths between each pair of nodes according to the specified operator. One such operator, the max function, computes the length of a path as the largest weight of the edges that compose it (a weakest link criterion). It is the only operator that yields an algebraic structure for computing shortest paths that is consistent with De Morgan's laws. Applying this operator yields the ultrametric backbone of a graph in that (semi-triangular) edges whose weights are larger than the length of an indirect path connecting the same nodes (i.e., those that break the generalized triangle inequality based on max as a path-length operator) are removed. We show that the ultrametric backbone is the union of all minimum spanning forests in undriected graphs and provides a new generalization of minimum spanning trees to directed graphs.
Subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [133]
标题:  ReProbes: An Architecture for Reconfigurable and Adaptive Probes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12703
作者:  Federico Alessi,  Alessandro Tundo,  Marco Mobilio,  Oliviero Riganelli,  Leonardo Mariani
备注:  
Abstract:Modern distributed systems are highly dynamic and scalable, requiring monitoring solutions that can adapt to rapid changes. Monitoring systems that rely on external probes can only achieve adaptation through expensive operations such as deployment, undeployment, and reconfiguration. This poster paper introduces ReProbes, a class of adaptive monitoring probes that can handle rapid changes in data collection strategies. ReProbe offers controllable and configurable self-adaptive capabilities for data transmission, collection, and analysis methods. The resulting architecture can effectively enhance probe adaptability when qualitatively compared to state-of-the-art monitoring solutions.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [134]
标题:  Learning Cross-view Visual Geo-localization without Ground Truth
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12702
作者:  Haoyuan Li,  Chang Xu,  Wen Yang,  Huai Yu,  Gui-Song Xia
备注:  
Abstract:Cross-View Geo-Localization (CVGL) involves determining the geographical location of a query image by matching it with a corresponding GPS-tagged reference image. Current state-of-the-art methods predominantly rely on training models with labeled paired images, incurring substantial annotation costs and training burdens. In this study, we investigate the adaptation of frozen models for CVGL without requiring ground truth pair labels. We observe that training on unlabeled cross-view images presents significant challenges, including the need to establish relationships within unlabeled data and reconcile view discrepancies between uncertain queries and references. To address these challenges, we propose a self-supervised learning framework to train a learnable adapter for a frozen Foundation Model (FM). This adapter is designed to map feature distributions from diverse views into a uniform space using unlabeled data exclusively. To establish relationships within unlabeled data, we introduce an Expectation-Maximization-based Pseudo-labeling module, which iteratively estimates associations between cross-view features and optimizes the adapter. To maintain the robustness of the FM's representation, we incorporate an information consistency module with a reconstruction loss, ensuring that adapted features retain strong discriminative ability across views. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method achieves significant improvements over vanilla FMs and competitive accuracy compared to supervised methods, while necessitating fewer training parameters and relying solely on unlabeled data. Evaluation of our adaptation for task-specific models further highlights its broad applicability.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [135]
标题:  A second-order iterative time integration scheme for linear  poroelasticity
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12699
作者:  R. Altmann,  M. Deiml
备注:  
Abstract:We propose a novel time stepping method for linear poroelasticity by extending a recent iterative decoupling approach to the second-order case. This results in a two-step scheme with an inner iteration and a relaxation step. We prove second-order convergence for a prescribed number of inner iteration steps, only depending on the coupling strength of the elastic and the flow equation. The efficiency of the scheme is illustrated by a number of numerical experiments, including a simulation of three-dimensional brain tissue.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [136]
标题:  System Support for Environmentally Sustainable Computing in Data Centers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12698
作者:  Fan Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Modern data centers suffer from a growing carbon footprint due to insufficient support for environmental sustainability. While hardware accelerators and renewable energy have been utilized to enhance sustainability, addressing Quality of Service (QoS) degradation caused by renewable energy supply and hardware recycling remains challenging: (1) prior accelerators exhibit significant carbon footprints due to limited reconfigurability and inability to adapt to renewable energy fluctuations; (2) integrating recycled NAND flash chips in data centers poses challenges due to their short lifetime, increasing energy consumption; (3) the absence of a sustainability estimator impedes data centers and users in evaluating and improving their environmental impact. This study aims to improve system support for environmentally sustainable data centers by proposing a reconfigurable hardware accelerator for intensive computing primitives and developing a fractional NAND flash cell to extend the lifetime of recycled flash chips while supporting graceful capacity degradation. We also introduce a sustainability estimator to evaluate user task energy consumption and promote sustainable practices. We present our preliminary results and recognize this as an ongoing initiative with significant potential to advance environmentally sustainable computing in data centers and stimulate further exploration in this critical research domain.
Subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [137]
标题:  Bayesian estimation and uncertainty quantification of a  temperature-dependent thermal conductivity
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12696
作者:  Rodrigo L. S. Silva,  Clemens Verhoosel,  Erik Quaeghebeur
备注:  
Abstract:We consider the problem of estimating a temperature-dependent thermal conductivity model (curve) from temperature measurements. We apply a Bayesian estimation approach that takes into account measurement errors and limited prior information of system properties. The approach intertwines system simulation and Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling. We investigate the impact of assuming different model classes -- cubic polynomials and piecewise linear functions -- their parametrization, and different types of prior information -- ranging from uninformative to informative. Piecewise linear functions require more parameters (conductivity values) to be estimated than the four parameters (coefficients or conductivity values) needed for cubic polynomials. The former model class is more flexible, but the latter requires less MCMC samples. While parametrizing polynomials with coefficients may feel more natural, it turns out that parametrizing them using conductivity values is far more natural for the specification of prior information. Robust estimation is possible for all model classes and parametrizations, as long as the prior information is accurate or not too informative. Gaussian Markov random field priors are especially well-suited for piecewise linear functions.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [138]
标题:  As Firm As Their Foundations: Can open-sourced foundation models be used  to create adversarial examples for downstream tasks?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12693
作者:  Anjun Hu,  Jindong Gu,  Francesco Pinto,  Konstantinos Kamnitsas,  Philip Torr
备注:  
Abstract:Foundation models pre-trained on web-scale vision-language data, such as CLIP, are widely used as cornerstones of powerful machine learning systems. While pre-training offers clear advantages for downstream learning, it also endows downstream models with shared adversarial vulnerabilities that can be easily identified through the open-sourced foundation model. In this work, we expose such vulnerabilities in CLIP's downstream models and show that foundation models can serve as a basis for attacking their downstream systems. In particular, we propose a simple yet effective adversarial attack strategy termed Patch Representation Misalignment (PRM). Solely based on open-sourced CLIP vision encoders, this method produces adversaries that simultaneously fool more than 20 downstream models spanning 4 common vision-language tasks (semantic segmentation, object detection, image captioning and visual question-answering). Our findings highlight the concerning safety risks introduced by the extensive usage of public foundational models in the development of downstream systems, calling for extra caution in these scenarios.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [139]
标题:  LNPT: Label-free Network Pruning and Training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12690
作者:  Jinying Xiao,  Ping Li,  Zhe Tang,  Jie Nie
备注:  8 pages,7 figures
Abstract:Pruning before training enables the deployment of neural networks on smart devices. By retaining weights conducive to generalization, pruned networks can be accommodated on resource-constrained smart devices. It is commonly held that the distance on weight norms between the initialized and the fully-trained networks correlates with generalization performance. However, as we have uncovered, inconsistency between this metric and generalization during training processes, which poses an obstacle to determine the pruned structures on smart devices in advance. In this paper, we introduce the concept of the learning gap, emphasizing its accurate correlation with generalization. Experiments show that the learning gap, in the form of feature maps from the penultimate layer of networks, aligns with variations of generalization performance. We propose a novel learning framework, LNPT, which enables mature networks on the cloud to provide online guidance for network pruning and learning on smart devices with unlabeled data. Our results demonstrate the superiority of this approach over supervised training.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [140]
标题:  Stabilizing DG Methods Using Dafermos' Entropy Rate Criterion: III --  Unstructured Grids
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12689
作者:  Simon-Christian Klein
备注:  
Abstract:The approach presented in the second installment of this series is extended to multidimensional systems of conservation laws that are approximated via a Discontinuous Galerkin method on unstructured (triangular) grids. Special attention is paid to predicting the entropy dissipation from boundaries. The resulting schemes are free of tunable viscosity parameters and tested on the Euler equations. The trinity of testcases is the spreading of thermal energy from a point source, transsonic and supersonic flows around airfoils, and supersonic air inlets.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)

**编号**: [141]
标题:  SEVEN: Pruning Transformer Model by Reserving Sentinels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12688
作者:  Jinying Xiao,  Ping Li,  Jie Nie,  Zhe Tang
备注:  9 pages,6 figures
Abstract:Large-scale Transformer models (TM) have demonstrated outstanding performance across various tasks. However, their considerable parameter size restricts their applicability, particularly on mobile devices. Due to the dynamic and intricate nature of gradients on TM compared to Convolutional Neural Networks, commonly used pruning methods tend to retain weights with larger gradient noise. This results in pruned models that are sensitive to sparsity and datasets, exhibiting suboptimal performance. Symbolic Descent (SD) is a general approach for training and fine-tuning TM. In this paper, we attempt to describe the noisy batch gradient sequences on TM through the cumulative process of SD. We utilize this design to dynamically assess the importance scores of weights.SEVEN is introduced by us, which particularly favors weights with consistently high sensitivity, i.e., weights with small gradient noise. These weights are tended to be preserved by SEVEN. Extensive experiments on various TM in natural language, question-answering, and image classification domains are conducted to validate the effectiveness of SEVEN. The results demonstrate significant improvements of SEVEN in multiple pruning scenarios and across different sparsity levels. Additionally, SEVEN exhibits robust performance under various fine-tuning strategies. The code is publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [142]
标题:  Audio-Visual Compound Expression Recognition Method based on Late  Modality Fusion and Rule-based Decision
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12687
作者:  Elena Ryumina (1),  Maxim Markitantov (1),  Dmitry Ryumin (1),  Heysem Kaya (2),  Alexey Karpov (1) ((1) St. Petersburg Federal Research Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences, (2) Department of Information and Computing Sciences, Utrecht University)
备注:  7 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:This paper presents the results of the SUN team for the Compound Expressions Recognition Challenge of the 6th ABAW Competition. We propose a novel audio-visual method for compound expression recognition. Our method relies on emotion recognition models that fuse modalities at the emotion probability level, while decisions regarding the prediction of compound expressions are based on predefined rules. Notably, our method does not use any training data specific to the target task. The method is evaluated in multi-corpus training and cross-corpus validation setups. Our findings from the challenge demonstrate that the proposed method can potentially form a basis for development of intelligent tools for annotating audio-visual data in the context of human's basic and compound emotions. The source code is publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [143]
标题:  WaterVG: Waterway Visual Grounding based on Text-Guided Vision and  mmWave Radar
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12686
作者:  Runwei Guan,  Liye Jia,  Fengyufan Yang,  Shanliang Yao,  Erick Purwanto,  Xiaohui Zhu,  Eng Gee Lim,  Jeremy Smith,  Ka Lok Man,  Yutao Yue
备注:  10 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:The perception of waterways based on human intent holds significant importance for autonomous navigation and operations of Unmanned Surface Vehicles (USVs) in water environments. Inspired by visual grounding, in this paper, we introduce WaterVG, the first visual grounding dataset designed for USV-based waterway perception based on human intention prompts. WaterVG encompasses prompts describing multiple targets, with annotations at the instance level including bounding boxes and masks. Notably, WaterVG includes 11,568 samples with 34,950 referred targets, which integrates both visual and radar characteristics captured by monocular camera and millimeter-wave (mmWave) radar, enabling a finer granularity of text prompts. Furthermore, we propose a novel multi-modal visual grounding model, Potamoi, which is a multi-modal and multi-task model based on the one-stage paradigm with a designed Phased Heterogeneous Modality Fusion (PHMF) structure, including Adaptive Radar Weighting (ARW) and Multi-Head Slim Cross Attention (MHSCA). In specific, MHSCA is a low-cost and efficient fusion module with a remarkably small parameter count and FLOPs, elegantly aligning and fusing scenario context information captured by two sensors with linguistic features, which can effectively address tasks of referring expression comprehension and segmentation based on fine-grained prompts. Comprehensive experiments and evaluations have been conducted on WaterVG, where our Potamoi archives state-of-the-art performances compared with counterparts.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [144]
标题:  Dynamic Manipulation of Deformable Objects using Imitation Learning with  Adaptation to Hardware Constraints
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12685
作者:  Eric Hannus,  Tran Nguyen Le,  David Blanco-Mulero,  Ville Kyrki
备注:  Submitted to 2024 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS 2024). 8 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Imitation Learning (IL) is a promising paradigm for learning dynamic manipulation of deformable objects since it does not depend on difficult-to-create accurate simulations of such objects. However, the translation of motions demonstrated by a human to a robot is a challenge for IL, due to differences in the embodiments and the robot's physical limits. These limits are especially relevant in dynamic manipulation where high velocities and accelerations are typical. To address this problem, we propose a framework that first maps a dynamic demonstration into a motion that respects the robot's constraints using a constrained Dynamic Movement Primitive. Second, the resulting object state is further optimized by quasi-static refinement motions to optimize task performance metrics. This allows both efficiently altering the object state by dynamic motions and stable small-scale refinements. We evaluate the framework in the challenging task of bag opening, designing the system BILBO: Bimanual dynamic manipulation using Imitation Learning for Bag Opening. Our results show that BILBO can successfully open a wide range of crumpled bags, using a demonstration with a single bag. See supplementary material at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [145]
标题:  IFFNeRF: Initialisation Free and Fast 6DoF pose estimation from a single  image and a NeRF model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12682
作者:  Matteo Bortolon,  Theodore Tsesmelis,  Stuart James,  Fabio Poiesi,  Alessio Del Bue
备注:  Accepted ICRA 2024, Project page: this https URL
Abstract:We introduce IFFNeRF to estimate the six degrees-of-freedom (6DoF) camera pose of a given image, building on the Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) formulation. IFFNeRF is specifically designed to operate in real-time and eliminates the need for an initial pose guess that is proximate to the sought solution. IFFNeRF utilizes the Metropolis-Hasting algorithm to sample surface points from within the NeRF model. From these sampled points, we cast rays and deduce the color for each ray through pixel-level view synthesis. The camera pose can then be estimated as the solution to a Least Squares problem by selecting correspondences between the query image and the resulting bundle. We facilitate this process through a learned attention mechanism, bridging the query image embedding with the embedding of parameterized rays, thereby matching rays pertinent to the image. Through synthetic and real evaluation settings, we show that our method can improve the angular and translation error accuracy by 80.1% and 67.3%, respectively, compared to iNeRF while performing at 34fps on consumer hardware and not requiring the initial pose guess.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [146]
标题:  Empowering Air Travelers: A Chatbot for Canadian Air Passenger Rights
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12678
作者:  Maksym Taranukhin,  Sahithya Ravi,  Gabor Lukacs,  Evangelos Milios,  Vered Shwartz
备注:  under review
Abstract:The Canadian air travel sector has seen a significant increase in flight delays, cancellations, and other issues concerning passenger rights. Recognizing this demand, we present a chatbot to assist passengers and educate them about their rights. Our system breaks a complex user input into simple queries which are used to retrieve information from a collection of documents detailing air travel regulations. The most relevant passages from these documents are presented along with links to the original documents and the generated queries, enabling users to dissect and leverage the information for their unique circumstances. The system successfully overcomes two predominant challenges: understanding complex user inputs, and delivering accurate answers, free of hallucinations, that passengers can rely on for making informed decisions. A user study comparing the chatbot to a Google search demonstrated the chatbot's usefulness and ease of use. Beyond the primary goal of providing accurate and timely information to air passengers regarding their rights, we hope that this system will also enable further research exploring the tradeoff between the user-friendly conversational interface of chatbots and the accuracy of retrieval systems.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [147]
标题:  In-Hand Following of Deformable Linear Objects Using Dexterous Fingers  with Tactile Sensing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12676
作者:  Mingrui Yu,  Boyuan Liang,  Xiang Zhang,  Xinghao Zhu,  Xiang Li,  Masayoshi Tomizuka
备注:  
Abstract:Most research on deformable linear object (DLO) manipulation assumes rigid grasping. However, beyond rigid grasping and re-grasping, in-hand following is also an essential skill that humans use to dexterously manipulate DLOs, which requires continuously changing the grasp point by in-hand sliding while holding the DLO to prevent it from falling. Achieving such a skill is very challenging for robots without using specially designed but not versatile end-effectors. Previous works have attempted using generic parallel grippers, but their robustness is unsatisfactory owing to the conflict between following and holding, which is hard to balance with a one-degree-of-freedom gripper. In this work, inspired by how humans use fingers to follow DLOs, we explore the usage of a generic dexterous hand with tactile sensing to imitate human skills and achieve robust in-hand DLO following. To enable the hardware system to function in the real world, we develop a framework that includes Cartesian-space arm-hand control, tactile-based in-hand 3-D DLO pose estimation, and task-specific motion design. Experimental results demonstrate the significant superiority of our method over using parallel grippers, as well as its great robustness, generalizability, and efficiency.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [148]
标题:  Pragmatic Competence Evaluation of Large Language Models for Korean
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12675
作者:  Dojun Park,  Jiwoo Lee,  Hyeyun Jeong,  Seohyun Park,  Sungeun Lee
备注:  9 pages, submitted for publication
Abstract:The current evaluation of Large Language Models (LLMs) predominantly relies on benchmarks focusing on their embedded knowledge by testing through multiple-choice questions (MCQs), a format inherently suited for automated evaluation. Our study extends this evaluation to explore LLMs' pragmatic competence--a facet previously underexamined before the advent of sophisticated LLMs, specifically in the context of Korean. We employ two distinct evaluation setups: the conventional MCQ format, adapted for automatic evaluation, and Open-Ended Questions (OEQs), assessed by human experts, to examine LLMs' narrative response capabilities without predefined options. Our findings reveal that GPT-4 excels, scoring 81.11 and 85.69 in the MCQ and OEQ setups, respectively, with HyperCLOVA X, an LLM optimized for Korean, closely following, especially in the OEQ setup, demonstrating a score of 81.56 with a marginal difference of 4.13 points compared to GPT-4. Furthermore, while few-shot learning strategies generally enhance LLM performance, Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting introduces a bias toward literal interpretations, hindering accurate pragmatic inference. Considering the growing expectation for LLMs to understand and produce language that aligns with human communicative norms, our findings emphasize the importance for advancing LLMs' abilities to grasp and convey sophisticated meanings beyond mere literal interpretations.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [149]
标题:  Improving Interpretability of Scores in Anomaly Detection Based on  Gaussian-Bernoulli Restricted Boltzmann Machine
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12672
作者:  Kaiji Sekimoto,  Muneki Yasuda
备注:  
Abstract:Gaussian-Bernoulli restricted Boltzmann machines (GBRBMs) are often used for semi-supervised anomaly detection, where they are trained using only normal data points. In GBRBM-based anomaly detection, normal and anomalous data are classified based on a score that is identical to an energy function of the marginal GBRBM. However, the classification threshold is difficult to set to an appropriate value, as this score cannot be interpreted. In this study, we propose a measure that improves score's interpretability based on its cumulative distribution, and establish a guideline for setting the threshold using the interpretable measure. The results of numerical experiments show that the guideline is reasonable when setting the threshold solely using normal data points. Moreover, because identifying the measure involves computationally infeasible evaluation of the minimum score value, we also propose an evaluation method for the minimum score based on simulated annealing, which is widely used for optimization problems. The proposed evaluation method was also validated using numerical experiments.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [150]
标题:  Enhancing Security of AI-Based Code Synthesis with GitHub Copilot via  Cheap and Efficient Prompt-Engineering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12671
作者:  Jakub Res,  Ivan Homoliak,  Martin Perešíni,  Aleš Smrčka,  Kamil Malinka,  Petr Hanacek
备注:  
Abstract:AI assistants for coding are on the rise. However one of the reasons developers and companies avoid harnessing their full potential is the questionable security of the generated code. This paper first reviews the current state-of-the-art and identifies areas for improvement on this issue. Then, we propose a systematic approach based on prompt-altering methods to achieve better code security of (even proprietary black-box) AI-based code generators such as GitHub Copilot, while minimizing the complexity of the application from the user point-of-view, the computational resources, and operational costs. In sum, we propose and evaluate three prompt altering methods: (1) scenario-specific, (2) iterative, and (3) general clause, while we discuss their combination. Contrary to the audit of code security, the latter two of the proposed methods require no expert knowledge from the user. We assess the effectiveness of the proposed methods on the GitHub Copilot using the OpenVPN project in realistic scenarios, and we demonstrate that the proposed methods reduce the number of insecure generated code samples by up to 16\% and increase the number of secure code by up to 8\%. Since our approach does not require access to the internals of the AI models, it can be in general applied to any AI-based code synthesizer, not only GitHub Copilot.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [151]
标题:  Driving Animatronic Robot Facial Expression From Speech
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12670
作者:  Boren Li,  Hang Li,  Hangxin Liu
备注:  Under review
Abstract:Animatronic robots aim to enable natural human-robot interaction through lifelike facial expressions. However, generating realistic, speech-synchronized robot expressions is challenging due to the complexities of facial biomechanics and responsive motion synthesis. This paper presents a principled, skinning-centric approach to drive animatronic robot facial expressions from speech. The proposed approach employs linear blend skinning (LBS) as the core representation to guide tightly integrated innovations in embodiment design and motion synthesis. LBS informs the actuation topology, enables human expression retargeting, and allows speech-driven facial motion generation. The proposed approach is capable of generating highly realistic, real-time facial expressions from speech on an animatronic face, significantly advancing robots' ability to replicate nuanced human expressions for natural interaction.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [152]
标题:  ICE: Interactive 3D Game Character Editing via Dialogue
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12667
作者:  Haoqian Wu,  Yunjie Wu,  Zhipeng Hu,  Lincheng Li,  Weijie Chen,  Rui Zhao,  Changjie Fan,  Yu Xin
备注:  
Abstract:Text-driven in-game 3D character auto-customization systems eliminate the complicated process of manipulating intricate character control parameters. However, current methods are limited by their single-round generation, incapable of further editing and fine-grained modification. In this paper, we propose an Interactive Character Editing framework (ICE) to achieve a multi-round dialogue-based refinement process. In a nutshell, our ICE offers a more user-friendly way to enable players to convey creative ideas iteratively while ensuring that created characters align with the expectations of players. Specifically, we propose an Instruction Parsing Module (IPM) that utilizes large language models (LLMs) to parse multi-round dialogues into clear editing instruction prompts in each round. To reliably and swiftly modify character control parameters at a fine-grained level, we propose a Semantic-guided Low-dimension Parameter Solver (SLPS) that edits character control parameters according to prompts in a zero-shot manner. Our SLPS first localizes the character control parameters related to the fine-grained modification, and then optimizes the corresponding parameters in a low-dimension space to avoid unrealistic results. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed ICE for in-game character creation and the superior editing performance of ICE. Project page: this https URL.
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [153]
标题:  Multi-Dimensional Machine Translation Evaluation: Model Evaluation and  Resource for Korean
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12666
作者:  Dojun Park,  Sebastian Padó
备注:  9 pages, accepted at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Almost all frameworks for the manual or automatic evaluation of machine translation characterize the quality of an MT output with a single number. An exception is the Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM) framework which offers a fine-grained ontology of quality dimensions for scoring (such as style, fluency, accuracy, and terminology). Previous studies have demonstrated the feasibility of MQM annotation but there are, to our knowledge, no computational models that predict MQM scores for novel texts, due to a lack of resources. In this paper, we address these shortcomings by (a) providing a 1200-sentence MQM evaluation benchmark for the language pair English-Korean and (b) reframing MT evaluation as the multi-task problem of simultaneously predicting several MQM scores using SOTA language models, both in a reference-based MT evaluation setup and a reference-free quality estimation (QE) setup. We find that reference-free setup outperforms its counterpart in the style dimension while reference-based models retain an edge regarding accuracy. Overall, RemBERT emerges as the most promising model. Through our evaluation, we offer an insight into the translation quality in a more fine-grained, interpretable manner.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [154]
标题:  Deciphering AutoML Ensembles: cattleia's Assistance in Decision-Making
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12664
作者:  Anna Kozak,  Dominik Kędzierski,  Jakub Piwko,  Malwina Wojewoda,  Katarzyna Woźnica
备注:  
Abstract:In many applications, model ensembling proves to be better than a single predictive model. Hence, it is the most common post-processing technique in Automated Machine Learning (AutoML). The most popular frameworks use ensembles at the expense of reducing the interpretability of the final models. In our work, we propose cattleia - an application that deciphers the ensembles for regression, multiclass, and binary classification tasks. This tool works with models built by three AutoML packages: auto-sklearn, AutoGluon, and FLAML. The given ensemble is analyzed from different perspectives. We conduct a predictive performance investigation through evaluation metrics of the ensemble and its component models. We extend the validation perspective by introducing new measures to assess the diversity and complementarity of the model predictions. Moreover, we apply explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) techniques to examine the importance of variables. Summarizing obtained insights, we can investigate and adjust the weights with a modification tool to tune the ensemble in the desired way. The application provides the aforementioned aspects through dedicated interactive visualizations, making it accessible to a diverse audience. We believe the cattleia can support users in decision-making and deepen the comprehension of AutoML frameworks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [155]
标题:  ERASE: Benchmarking Feature Selection Methods for Deep Recommender  Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12660
作者:  Pengyue Jia,  Yejing Wang,  Zhaocheng Du,  Xiangyu Zhao,  Yichao Wang,  Bo Chen,  Wanyu Wang,  Huifeng Guo,  Ruiming Tang
备注:  
Abstract:Deep Recommender Systems (DRS) are increasingly dependent on a large number of feature fields for more precise recommendations. Effective feature selection methods are consequently becoming critical for further enhancing the accuracy and optimizing storage efficiencies to align with the deployment demands. This research area, particularly in the context of DRS, is nascent and faces three core challenges. Firstly, variant experimental setups across research papers often yield unfair comparisons, obscuring practical insights. Secondly, the existing literature's lack of detailed analysis on selection attributes, based on large-scale datasets and a thorough comparison among selection techniques and DRS backbones, restricts the generalizability of findings and impedes deployment on DRS. Lastly, research often focuses on comparing the peak performance achievable by feature selection methods, an approach that is typically computationally infeasible for identifying the optimal hyperparameters and overlooks evaluating the robustness and stability of these methods. To bridge these gaps, this paper presents ERASE, a comprehensive bEnchmaRk for feAture SElection for DRS. ERASE comprises a thorough evaluation of eleven feature selection methods, covering both traditional and deep learning approaches, across four public datasets, private industrial datasets, and a real-world commercial platform, achieving significant enhancement. Our code is available online for ease of reproduction.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [156]
标题:  Tuning-Free Image Customization with Image and Text Guidance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12658
作者:  Pengzhi Li,  Qiang Nie,  Ying Chen,  Xi Jiang,  Kai Wu,  Yuhuan Lin,  Yong Liu,  Jinlong Peng,  Chengjie Wang,  Feng Zheng
备注:  17 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Despite significant advancements in image customization with diffusion models, current methods still have several limitations: 1) unintended changes in non-target areas when regenerating the entire image; 2) guidance solely by a reference image or text descriptions; and 3) time-consuming fine-tuning, which limits their practical application. In response, we introduce a tuning-free framework for simultaneous text-image-guided image customization, enabling precise editing of specific image regions within seconds. Our approach preserves the semantic features of the reference image subject while allowing modification of detailed attributes based on text descriptions. To achieve this, we propose an innovative attention blending strategy that blends self-attention features in the UNet decoder during the denoising process. To our knowledge, this is the first tuning-free method that concurrently utilizes text and image guidance for image customization in specific regions. Our approach outperforms previous methods in both human and quantitative evaluations, providing an efficient solution for various practical applications, such as image synthesis, design, and creative photography.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [157]
标题:  Adaptive Multilevel Neural Networks for Parametric PDEs with Error  Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12650
作者:  Janina E. Schütte,  Martin Eigel
备注:  
Abstract:To solve high-dimensional parameter-dependent partial differential equations (pPDEs), a neural network architecture is presented. It is constructed to map parameters of the model data to corresponding finite element solutions. To improve training efficiency and to enable control of the approximation error, the network mimics an adaptive finite element method (AFEM). It outputs a coarse grid solution and a series of corrections as produced in an AFEM, allowing a tracking of the error decay over successive layers of the network. The observed errors are measured by a reliable residual based a posteriori error estimator, enabling the reduction to only few parameters for the approximation in the output of the network. This leads to a problem adapted representation of the solution on locally refined grids. Furthermore, each solution of the AFEM is discretized in a hierarchical basis. For the architecture, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are chosen. The hierarchical basis then allows to handle sparse images for finely discretized meshes. Additionally, as corrections on finer levels decrease in amplitude, i.e., importance for the overall approximation, the accuracy of the network approximation is allowed to decrease successively. This can either be incorporated in the number of generated high fidelity samples used for training or the size of the network components responsible for the fine grid outputs. The architecture is described and preliminary numerical examples are presented.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [158]
标题:  InBox: Recommendation with Knowledge Graph using Interest Box Embedding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12649
作者:  Zezhong Xu,  Yincen Qu,  Wen Zhang,  Lei Liang,  Huajun Chen
备注:  VLDB 2024 under submission
Abstract:Knowledge graphs (KGs) have become vitally important in modern recommender systems, effectively improving performance and interpretability. Fundamentally, recommender systems aim to identify user interests based on historical interactions and recommend suitable items. However, existing works overlook two key challenges: (1) an interest corresponds to a potentially large set of related items, and (2) the lack of explicit, fine-grained exploitation of KG information and interest connectivity. This leads to an inability to reflect distinctions between entities and interests when modeling them in a single way. Additionally, the granularity of concepts in the knowledge graphs used for recommendations tends to be coarse, failing to match the fine-grained nature of user interests. This homogenization limits the precise exploitation of knowledge graph data and interest connectivity. To address these limitations, we introduce a novel embedding-based model called InBox. Specifically, various knowledge graph entities and relations are embedded as points or boxes, while user interests are modeled as boxes encompassing interaction history. Representing interests as boxes enables containing collections of item points related to that interest. We further propose that an interest comprises diverse basic concepts, and box intersection naturally supports concept combination. Across three training steps, InBox significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods like HAKG and KGIN on recommendation tasks. Further analysis provides meaningful insights into the variable value of different KG data for recommendations. In summary, InBox advances recommender systems through box-based interest and concept modeling for sophisticated knowledge graph exploitation.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [159]
标题:  Revisiting Local Computation of PageRank: Simple and Optimal
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12648
作者:  Hanzhi Wang,  Zhewei Wei,  Ji-Rong Wen,  Mingji Yang
备注:  30 pages, 3 figures, full version of a STOC 2024 paper
Abstract:We revisit the classic local graph exploration algorithm ApproxContributions proposed by Andersen, Borgs, Chayes, Hopcroft, Mirrokni, and Teng (WAW '07, Internet Math. '08) for computing an $\epsilon$-approximation of the PageRank contribution vector for a target node $t$ on a graph with $n$ nodes and $m$ edges. We give a worst-case complexity bound of ApproxContributions as $O(n\pi(t)/\epsilon\cdot\min(\Delta_{in},\Delta_{out},\sqrt{m}))$, where $\pi(t)$ is the PageRank score of $t$, and $\Delta_{in}$ and $\Delta_{out}$ are the maximum in-degree and out-degree of the graph, resp. We also give a lower bound of $\Omega(\min(\Delta_{in}/\delta,\Delta_{out}/\delta,\sqrt{m}/\delta,m))$ for detecting the $\delta$-contributing set of $t$, showing that the simple ApproxContributions algorithm is already optimal. We also investigate the computational complexity of locally estimating a node's PageRank centrality. We improve the best-known upper bound of $\widetilde{O}(n^{2/3}\cdot\min(\Delta_{out}^{1/3},m^{1/6}))$ given by Bressan, Peserico, and Pretto (SICOMP '23) to $O(n^{1/2}\cdot\min(\Delta_{in}^{1/2},\Delta_{out}^{1/2},m^{1/4}))$ by simply combining ApproxContributions with the Monte Carlo simulation method. We also improve their lower bound of $\Omega(\min(n^{1/2}\Delta_{out}^{1/2},n^{1/3}m^{1/3}))$ to $\Omega(n^{1/2}\cdot\min(\Delta_{in}^{1/2},\Delta_{out}^{1/2},m^{1/4}))$ if $\min(\Delta_{in},\Delta_{out})=\Omega(n^{1/3})$, and to $\Omega(n^{1/2-\gamma}(\min(\Delta_{in},\Delta_{out}))^{1/2+\gamma})$ if $\min(\Delta_{in},\Delta_{out})=o(n^{1/3})$, where $\gamma>0$ is an arbitrarily small constant. Our matching upper and lower bounds resolve the open problem of whether one can tighten the bounds given by Bressan, Peserico, and Pretto (FOCS '18, SICOMP '23). Remarkably, the techniques and analyses for proving all our results are surprisingly simple.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [160]
标题:  Prompt-fused framework for Inductive Logical Query Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12646
作者:  Zezhong Xu,  Peng Ye,  Lei Liang,  Huajun Chen,  Wen Zhang
备注:  Accepted by COLING 2024
Abstract:Answering logical queries on knowledge graphs (KG) poses a significant challenge for machine reasoning. The primary obstacle in this task stems from the inherent incompleteness of KGs. Existing research has predominantly focused on addressing the issue of missing edges in KGs, thereby neglecting another aspect of incompleteness: the emergence of new entities. Furthermore, most of the existing methods tend to reason over each logical operator separately, rather than comprehensively analyzing the query as a whole during the reasoning process. In this paper, we propose a query-aware prompt-fused framework named Pro-QE, which could incorporate existing query embedding methods and address the embedding of emerging entities through contextual information aggregation. Additionally, a query prompt, which is generated by encoding the symbolic query, is introduced to gather information relevant to the query from a holistic perspective. To evaluate the efficacy of our model in the inductive setting, we introduce two new challenging benchmarks. Experimental results demonstrate that our model successfully handles the issue of unseen entities in logical queries. Furthermore, the ablation study confirms the efficacy of the aggregator and prompt components.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [161]
标题:  When Does Your Brain Know You? Segment Length and Its Impact on  EEG-based Biometric Authentication Accuracy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12644
作者:  Nibras Abo Alzahab,  Lorenzo Scalise,  Marco Baldi
备注:  11 pages, 4 figures, conferance
Abstract:In the quest for optimal EEG-based biometric authentication, this study investigates the pivotal balance for accurate identification without sacrificing performance or adding unnecessary computational complexity. Through a methodical exploration of segment durations, and employing a variety of sophisticated machine learning models, the research seeks to pinpoint a threshold where EEG data provides maximum informational yield for authentication purposes. The findings are set to advance the field of non-invasive biometric technologies, proposing a practical approach to secure and user-friendly identity verification systems while also raising considerations for the real-world application of EEG-based biometric authentication beyond controlled environments.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Signal Processing (eess.SP); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)

**编号**: [162]
标题:  Automated Contrastive Learning Strategy Search for Time Series
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12641
作者:  Baoyu Jing,  Yansen Wang,  Guoxin Sui,  Jing Hong,  Jingrui He,  Yuqing Yang,  Dongsheng Li,  Kan Ren
备注:  Preprint. Work in progress
Abstract:In recent years, Contrastive Learning (CL) has become a predominant representation learning paradigm for time series. Most existing methods in the literature focus on manually building specific Contrastive Learning Strategies (CLS) by human heuristics for certain datasets and tasks. However, manually developing CLS usually require excessive prior knowledge about the datasets and tasks, e.g., professional cognition of the medical time series in healthcare, as well as huge human labor and massive experiments to determine the detailed learning configurations. In this paper, we present an Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) practice at Microsoft, which automatically learns to contrastively learn representations for various time series datasets and tasks, namely Automated Contrastive Learning (AutoCL). We first construct a principled universal search space of size over 3x1012, covering data augmentation, embedding transformation, contrastive pair construction and contrastive losses. Further, we introduce an efficient reinforcement learning algorithm, which optimizes CLS from the performance on the validation tasks, to obtain more effective CLS within the space. Experimental results on various real-world tasks and datasets demonstrate that AutoCL could automatically find the suitable CLS for a given dataset and task. From the candidate CLS found by AutoCL on several public datasets/tasks, we compose a transferable Generally Good Strategy (GGS), which has a strong performance for other datasets. We also provide empirical analysis as a guidance for future design of CLS.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [163]
标题:  A Practical Guide to Statistical Distances for Evaluating Generative  Models in Science
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12636
作者:  Sebastian Bischoff,  Alana Darcher,  Michael Deistler,  Richard Gao,  Franziska Gerken,  Manuel Gloeckler,  Lisa Haxel,  Jaivardhan Kapoor,  Janne K Lappalainen,  Jakob H Macke,  Guy Moss,  Matthijs Pals,  Felix Pei,  Rachel Rapp,  A Erdem Sağtekin,  Cornelius Schröder,  Auguste Schulz,  Zinovia Stefanidi,  Shoji Toyota,  Linda Ulmer,  Julius Vetter
备注:  
Abstract:Generative models are invaluable in many fields of science because of their ability to capture high-dimensional and complicated distributions, such as photo-realistic images, protein structures, and connectomes. How do we evaluate the samples these models generate? This work aims to provide an accessible entry point to understanding popular notions of statistical distances, requiring only foundational knowledge in mathematics and statistics. We focus on four commonly used notions of statistical distances representing different methodologies: Using low-dimensional projections (Sliced-Wasserstein; SW), obtaining a distance using classifiers (Classifier Two-Sample Tests; C2ST), using embeddings through kernels (Maximum Mean Discrepancy; MMD), or neural networks (Fréchet Inception Distance; FID). We highlight the intuition behind each distance and explain their merits, scalability, complexity, and pitfalls. To demonstrate how these distances are used in practice, we evaluate generative models from different scientific domains, namely a model of decision making and a model generating medical images. We showcase that distinct distances can give different results on similar data. Through this guide, we aim to help researchers to use, interpret, and evaluate statistical distances for generative models in science.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [164]
标题:  State Estimation Using Single Body-Frame Bearing Measurements
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12633
作者:  Sifeddine Benahmed,  Soulaimane Berkane
备注:  
Abstract:This paper addresses the problem of simultaneous estimation of the position, linear velocity and orientation of a rigid body using single bearing measurements. We introduce a Riccati observer-based estimator that fuses measurements from a 3-axis accelerometer, a 3-axis gyroscope, a single body-frame vector observation (e.g., magnetometer), and a single bearing-to-landmark measurement to obtain the full vehicle's state (position, velocity, orientation). The proposed observer guarantees global exponential convergence under some persistency of excitation (PE) condition on the vehicle's motion. Simulation results are presented to show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [165]
标题:  PointGrasp: Point Cloud-based Grasping for Tendon-driven Soft Robotic  Glove Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12631
作者:  Chen Hu,  Shirui Lyu,  Eojin Rho,  Daekyum Kim,  Shan Luo,  Letizia Gionfrida
备注:  6 pages, 8 figures, conference
Abstract:Controlling hand exoskeletons to assist individuals with grasping tasks poses a challenge due to the difficulty in understanding user intentions. We propose that most daily grasping tasks during activities of daily living (ADL) can be deduced by analyzing object geometries (simple and complex) from 3D point clouds. The study introduces PointGrasp, a real-time system designed for identifying household scenes semantically, aiming to support and enhance assistance during ADL for tailored end-to-end grasping tasks. The system comprises an RGB-D camera with an inertial measurement unit and a microprocessor integrated into a tendon-driven soft robotic glove. The RGB-D camera processes 3D scenes at a rate exceeding 30 frames per second. The proposed pipeline demonstrates an average RMSE of 0.8 $\pm$ 0.39 cm for simple and 0.11 $\pm$ 0.06 cm for complex geometries. Within each mode, it identifies and pinpoints reachable objects. This system shows promise in end-to-end vision-driven robotic-assisted rehabilitation manual tasks.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [166]
标题:  Enhancing Formal Theorem Proving: A Comprehensive Dataset for Training  AI Models on Coq Code
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12627
作者:  Andreas Florath
备注:  11 pages
Abstract:In the realm of formal theorem proving, the Coq proof assistant stands out for its rigorous approach to verifying mathematical assertions and software correctness. Despite the advances in artificial intelligence and machine learning, the specialized nature of Coq syntax and semantics poses unique challenges for Large Language Models (LLMs). Addressing this gap, we present a comprehensive dataset specifically designed to enhance LLMs' proficiency in interpreting and generating Coq code. This dataset, derived from a collection of over 10,000 Coq source files, encompasses a wide array of propositions, proofs, and definitions, enriched with metadata including source references and licensing information. Our primary aim is to facilitate the development of LLMs capable of generating syntactically correct and semantically meaningful Coq constructs, thereby advancing the frontier of automated theorem proving. Initial experiments with this dataset have showcased its significant potential; models trained on this data exhibited enhanced accuracy in Coq code generation. Notably, a particular experiment revealed that a fine-tuned LLM was capable of generating 141 valid proofs for a basic lemma, highlighting the dataset's utility in facilitating the discovery of diverse and valid proof strategies. This paper discusses the dataset's composition, the methodology behind its creation, and the implications of our findings for the future of machine learning in formal verification. The dataset is accessible for further research and exploration: this https URL
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)

**编号**: [167]
标题:  Detection of Malicious Agents in Social Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12619
作者:  Valentina Shumovskaia,  Mert Kayaalp,  Ali H. Sayed
备注:  
Abstract:Social learning is a non-Bayesian framework for distributed hypothesis testing aimed at learning the true state of the environment. Traditionally, the agents are assumed to receive observations conditioned on the same true state, although it is also possible to examine the case of heterogeneous models across the graph. One important special case is when heterogeneity is caused by the presence of malicious agents whose goal is to move the agents towards a wrong hypothesis. In this work, we propose an algorithm that allows to discover the true state of every individual agent based on the sequence of their beliefs. In so doing, the methodology is also able to locate malicious behavior.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [168]
标题:  NewsCaption: Named-Entity aware Captioning for Out-of-Context Media
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12618
作者:  Anurag Singh,  Shivangi Aneja
备注:  
Abstract:With the increasing influence of social media, online misinformation has grown to become a societal issue. The motivation for our work comes from the threat caused by cheapfakes, where an unaltered image is described using a news caption in a new but false-context. The main challenge in detecting such out-of-context multimedia is the unavailability of large-scale datasets. Several detection methods employ randomly selected captions to generate out-of-context training inputs. However, these randomly matched captions are not truly representative of out-of-context scenarios due to inconsistencies between the image description and the matched caption. We aim to address these limitations by introducing a novel task of out-of-context caption generation. In this work, we propose a new method that generates a realistic out-of-context caption given visual and textual context. We also demonstrate that the semantics of the generated captions can be controlled using the textual context. We also evaluate our method against several baselines and our method improves over the image captioning baseline by 6.2% BLUE-4, 2.96% CiDEr, 11.5% ROUGE, and 7.3% METEOR
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [169]
标题:  MOCCA: A Fast Algorithm for Parallel MRI Reconstruction Using Model  Based Coil Calibration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12611
作者:  Gerlind Plonka,  Yannick Riebe
备注:  32 pages
Abstract:We propose a new fast algorithm for simultaneous recovery of the coil sensitivities and the magnetization image from incomplete Fourier measurements in parallel MRI. Our approach is based on suitable parameter models for both, the magnetization image and the sensitivities. The derived MOCCA algorithm provides perfect reconstruction results if the model assumptions are satisfied. Moreover, it has low computational complexity and achieves very good performance for incomplete MRI data. We present a complete mathematical analysis of the proposed reconstruction method. Most importantly, MOCCA leads to a better understanding of the connections between subspace methods and sensitivity modeling which will provide us the with the opportunity to improve also existing algorithms as ESPIRiT.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [170]
标题:  SUN Team's Contribution to ABAW 2024 Competition: Audio-visual  Valence-Arousal Estimation and Expression Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12609
作者:  Denis Dresvyanskiy,  Maxim Markitantov,  Jiawei Yu,  Peitong Li,  Heysem Kaya,  Alexey Karpov
备注:  9 pages,
Abstract:As emotions play a central role in human communication, automatic emotion recognition has attracted increasing attention in the last two decades. While multimodal systems enjoy high performances on lab-controlled data, they are still far from providing ecological validity on non-lab-controlled, namely 'in-the-wild' data. This work investigates audiovisual deep learning approaches for emotion recognition in-the-wild problem. We particularly explore the effectiveness of architectures based on fine-tuned Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Public Dimensional Emotion Model (PDEM), for video and audio modality, respectively. We compare alternative temporal modeling and fusion strategies using the embeddings from these multi-stage trained modality-specific Deep Neural Networks (DNN). We report results on the AffWild2 dataset under Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-Wild 2024 (ABAW'24) challenge protocol.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [171]
标题:  Looking for the Human in HRI Teaching: User-Centered Course Design for  Tech-Savvy Students
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12607
作者:  Tobias Doernbach
备注:  Presented at the Designing an Intro to HRI Course Workshop at HRI 2024 (arXiv:2403.05588)
Abstract:Top-down, user-centered thinking is not typically a strength of all students, especially tech-savvy computer science-related ones. We propose Human-Robot Interaction (HRI) introductory courses as a highly suitable opportunity to foster these important skills since the HRI discipline includes a focus on humans as users. Our HRI course therefore contains elements like scenario-based design of laboratory projects, discussing and merging ideas and other self-empowerment techniques. Participants describe, implement and present everyday scenarios using Pepper robots and our customized open-source visual programming tool. We observe that students obtain a good grasp of the taught topics and improve their user-centered thinking skills.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [172]
标题:  On the Effectiveness of Heterogeneous Ensemble Methods for  Re-identification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12606
作者:  Simon Klüttermann,  Jérôme Rutinowski,  Anh Nguyen,  Britta Grimme,  Moritz Roidl,  Emmanuel Müller
备注:  
Abstract:In this contribution, we introduce a novel ensemble method for the re-identification of industrial entities, using images of chipwood pallets and galvanized metal plates as dataset examples. Our algorithms replace commonly used, complex siamese neural networks with an ensemble of simplified, rudimentary models, providing wider applicability, especially in hardware-restricted scenarios. Each ensemble sub-model uses different types of extracted features of the given data as its input, allowing for the creation of effective ensembles in a fraction of the training duration needed for more complex state-of-the-art models. We reach state-of-the-art performance at our task, with a Rank-1 accuracy of over 77% and a Rank-10 accuracy of over 99%, and introduce five distinct feature extraction approaches, and study their combination using different ensemble methods.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [173]
标题:  A Benchmark for Data Management Challenges in Microservices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12605
作者:  Rodrigo Laigner,  Zhexiang Zhang,  Yijian Liu,  Leonardo Freitas Gomes,  Yongluan Zhou
备注:  
Abstract:Microservice architectures emerged as a popular architecture for designing scalable distributed applications. Although microservices have been extensively employed in industry settings for over a decade, there is little understanding of the data management challenges that arise in these applications. As a result, it is difficult to advance data system technologies for supporting microservice applications. To fill this gap, we present Online Marketplace, a microservice benchmark that incorporates core data management challenges that existing benchmarks have not sufficiently addressed. These challenges include transaction processing, query processing, event processing, constraint enforcement, and data replication. We have defined criteria for various data management issues to enable proper comparison across data systems and platforms. After specifying the benchmark, we present the challenges we faced in creating workloads that accurately reflect the dynamic state of the microservices. We also discuss implementation issues that we encountered when developing Online Marketplace in state-of-the-art data platforms, which prevented us from meeting the specified data management requirements and criteria. Our evaluation demonstrates that the benchmark is a valuable tool for testing important properties sought by microservice practitioners. As a result, our proposed benchmark will facilitate the design of future data systems to meet the expectations of microservice practitioners.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [174]
标题:  LHMKE: A Large-scale Holistic Multi-subject Knowledge Evaluation  Benchmark for Chinese Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12601
作者:  Chuang Liu,  Renren Jin,  Yuqi Ren,  Deyi Xiong
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Chinese Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently demonstrated impressive capabilities across various NLP benchmarks and real-world applications. However, the existing benchmarks for comprehensively evaluating these LLMs are still insufficient, particularly in terms of measuring knowledge that LLMs capture. Current datasets collect questions from Chinese examinations across different subjects and educational levels to address this issue. Yet, these benchmarks primarily focus on objective questions such as multiple-choice questions, leading to a lack of diversity in question types. To tackle this problem, we propose LHMKE, a Large-scale, Holistic, and Multi-subject Knowledge Evaluation benchmark in this paper. LHMKE is designed to provide a comprehensive evaluation of the knowledge acquisition capabilities of Chinese LLMs. It encompasses 10,465 questions across 75 tasks covering 30 subjects, ranging from primary school to professional certification exams. Notably, LHMKE includes both objective and subjective questions, offering a more holistic evaluation of the knowledge level of LLMs. We have assessed 11 Chinese LLMs under the zero-shot setting, which aligns with real examinations, and compared their performance across different subjects. We also conduct an in-depth analysis to check whether GPT-4 can automatically score subjective predictions. Our findings suggest that LHMKE is a challenging and advanced testbed for Chinese LLMs.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [175]
标题:  Preventing Eviction-Caused Homelessness through ML-Informed Distribution  of Rental Assistance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12599
作者:  Catalina Vajiac,  Arun Frey,  Joachim Baumann,  Abigail Smith,  Kasun Amarasinghe,  Alice Lai,  Kit Rodolfa,  Rayid Ghani
备注:  Published at AAAI 2024
Abstract:Rental assistance programs provide individuals with financial assistance to prevent housing instabilities caused by evictions and avert homelessness. Since these programs operate under resource constraints, they must decide who to prioritize. Typically, funding is distributed by a reactive or first-come-first serve allocation process that does not systematically consider risk of future homelessness. We partnered with Allegheny County, PA to explore a proactive allocation approach that prioritizes individuals facing eviction based on their risk of future homelessness. Our ML system that uses state and county administrative data to accurately identify individuals in need of support outperforms simpler prioritization approaches by at least 20% while being fair and equitable across race and gender. Furthermore, our approach would identify 28% of individuals who are overlooked by the current process and end up homeless. Beyond improvements to the rental assistance program in Allegheny County, this study can inform the development of evidence-based decision support tools in similar contexts, including lessons about data needs, model design, evaluation, and field validation.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [176]
标题:  Chart-based Reasoning: Transferring Capabilities from LLMs to VLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12596
作者:  Victor Carbune,  Hassan Mansoor,  Fangyu Liu,  Rahul Aralikatte,  Gilles Baechler,  Jindong Chen,  Abhanshu Sharma
备注:  Findings of NAACL 2024
Abstract:Vision-language models (VLMs) are achieving increasingly strong performance on multimodal tasks. However, reasoning capabilities remain limited particularly for smaller VLMs, while those of large-language models (LLMs) have seen numerous improvements. We propose a technique to transfer capabilities from LLMs to VLMs. On the recently introduced ChartQA, our method obtains state-of-the-art performance when applied on the PaLI3-5B VLM by \citet{chen2023pali3}, while also enabling much better performance on PlotQA and FigureQA. We first improve the chart representation by continuing the pre-training stage using an improved version of the chart-to-table translation task by \citet{liu2023deplot}. We then propose constructing a 20x larger dataset than the original training set. To improve general reasoning capabilities and improve numerical operations, we synthesize reasoning traces using the table representation of charts. Lastly, our model is fine-tuned using the multitask loss introduced by \citet{hsieh2023distilling}. Our variant ChartPaLI-5B outperforms even 10x larger models such as PaLIX-55B without using an upstream OCR system, while keeping inference time constant compared to the PaLI3-5B baseline. When rationales are further refined with a simple program-of-thought prompt \cite{chen2023program}, our model outperforms the recently introduced Gemini Ultra and GPT-4V.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [177]
标题:  Ensuring Solution Uniqueness in Fixed-Point-Based Harmonic Power Flow  Analysis with Converter-Interfaced Resources: Ex-post Conditions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12595
作者:  Antonio Di Pasquale,  Johanna Kristin Maria Becker,  Andreas Martin Kettner,  Mario Paolone
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, the authors of this paper proposed a method for the Harmonic Power-Flow (HPF) calculus in polyphase grids with widespread deployment of Converter-Interfaced Distributed Energy Resources (CIDERs). The HPF problem was formulated by integrating the hybrid nodal equations of the grid with a detailed representation of the CIDERs hardware, sensing, and controls as Linear Time-Periodic (LTP) systems, and solving the resulting mismatch equations using the Newton-Raphson (NR) method. This work introduces a novel problem formulation based on the fixed-point algorithm that, combined with the contraction property of the HPF problem, provides insights into the uniqueness of its solution. Notably, the effectiveness of the fixed-point formulation and the uniqueness of the solution are evaluated through numerical analyses conducted on a modified version of the CIGRE low-voltage benchmark microgrid.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [178]
标题:  FootstepNet: an Efficient Actor-Critic Method for Fast On-line Bipedal  Footstep Planning and Forecasting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12589
作者:  Clément Gaspard,  Grégoire Passault,  Mélodie Daniel,  Olivier Ly
备注:  
Abstract:Designing a humanoid locomotion controller is challenging and classically split up in sub-problems. Footstep planning is one of those, where the sequence of footsteps is defined. Even in simpler environments, finding a minimal sequence, or even a feasible sequence, yields a complex optimization problem. In the literature, this problem is usually addressed by search-based algorithms (e.g. variants of A*). However, such approaches are either computationally expensive or rely on hand-crafted tuning of several parameters. In this work, at first, we propose an efficient footstep planning method to navigate in local environments with obstacles, based on state-of-the art Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) techniques, with very low computational requirements for on-line inference. Our approach is heuristic-free and relies on a continuous set of actions to generate feasible footsteps. In contrast, other methods necessitate the selection of a relevant discrete set of actions. Second, we propose a forecasting method, allowing to quickly estimate the number of footsteps required to reach different candidates of local targets. This approach relies on inherent computations made by the actor-critic DRL architecture. We demonstrate the validity of our approach with simulation results, and by a deployment on a kid-size humanoid robot during the RoboCup 2023 competition.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [179]
标题:  Machine Learning of the Prime Distribution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12588
作者:  Alexander Kolpakov,  Aidan Rocke
备注:  10 pages; parts of arXiv:2308.10817 reworked and amended; author's draft; accepted in PLOS ONE
Abstract:In the present work we use maximum entropy methods to derive several theorems in probabilistic number theory, including a version of the Hardy-Ramanujan Theorem. We also provide a theoretical argument explaining the experimental observations of Y.-H. He about the learnability of primes, and posit that the Erdős-Kac law would very unlikely be discovered by current machine learning techniques. Numerical experiments that we perform corroborate our theoretical findings.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Number Theory (math.NT)

**编号**: [180]
标题:  LASPA: Latent Spatial Alignment for Fast Training-free Single Image  Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12585
作者:  Yazeed Alharbi,  Peter Wonka
备注:  
Abstract:We present a novel, training-free approach for textual editing of real images using diffusion models. Unlike prior methods that rely on computationally expensive finetuning, our approach leverages LAtent SPatial Alignment (LASPA) to efficiently preserve image details. We demonstrate how the diffusion process is amenable to spatial guidance using a reference image, leading to semantically coherent edits. This eliminates the need for complex optimization and costly model finetuning, resulting in significantly faster editing compared to previous methods. Additionally, our method avoids the storage requirements associated with large finetuned models. These advantages make our approach particularly well-suited for editing on mobile devices and applications demanding rapid response times. While simple and fast, our method achieves 62-71\% preference in a user-study and significantly better model-based editing strength and image preservation scores.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [181]
标题:  Robust Fuel-Optimal Landing Guidance for Hazardous Terrain using  Multiple Sliding Surfaces
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12584
作者:  Sheikh Zeeshan Basar,  Satadal Ghosh
备注:  20 pages, 8 figures; This work has been submitted to the IEEE (TAES) for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible
Abstract:In any spacecraft landing mission, precision soft landing in a fuel-efficient way while also avoiding nearby hazardous terrain is of utmost importance. Very few existing literature have attempted addressing both the problems of precision soft landing and terrain avoidance simultaneously. To this end, an optimal terrain avoidance landing guidance (OTALG) was recently developed, which showed promising performance in avoiding the terrain while consuming near-minimum fuel. However, its performance significantly degrades in the face of external disturbances, indicating lack of robustness. In order to mitigate this problem, in this paper, a novel near fuel-optimal guidance law is developed to avoid terrain and land precisely and softly at the desired landing site, under atmospheric perturbations and thrust deviations and constraints. Expanding the OTALG formulation by using sliding mode control with multiple sliding surfaces (MSS), the presented guidance law, named `MSS-OTALG', improves in terms of precision soft landing accuracy. Further, the sliding parameter is designed to allow the lander to avoid terrain by leaving the trajectory enforced by the sliding mode, and eventually returning to it when the terrain avoidance phase is completed. And finally, the robustness of the MSS-OTALG is established by proving practical fixed-time stability. Extensive numerical simulations are also presented to showcase its performance in terms of terrain avoidance, low fuel consumption and accuracy of precision soft landing. Comparative studies against existing relevant literature validates a balanced trade-off of all these performance measures achieved by the developed MSS-OTALG.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [182]
标题:  Quantixar: High-performance Vector Data Management System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12583
作者:  Gulshan Yadav,  RahulKumar Yadav,  Mansi Viramgama,  Mayank Viramgama,  Apeksha Mohite
备注:  
Abstract:Traditional database management systems need help efficiently represent and querying the complex, high-dimensional data prevalent in modern applications. Vector databases offer a solution by storing data as numerical vectors within a multi-dimensional space. This enables similarity-based search and analysis, such as image retrieval, recommendation engine generation, and natural language processing. This paper introduces Quantixar, a vector database project designed for efficiency in high-dimensional settings. Quantixar tackles the challenge of managing high-dimensional data by strategically combining advanced indexing and quantization techniques. It employs HNSW indexing for accelerated ANN search. Additionally, Quantixar incorporates binary and product quantization to compress high-dimensional vectors, reducing storage requirements and computational costs during search. The paper delves into Quantixar's architecture, specific implementation, and experimental methodology.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [183]
标题:  AlphaFin: Benchmarking Financial Analysis with Retrieval-Augmented  Stock-Chain Framework
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12582
作者:  Xiang Li,  Zhenyu Li,  Chen Shi,  Yong Xu,  Qing Du,  Mingkui Tan,  Jun Huang,  Wei Lin
备注:  COLING 2024. The first three authors contributed equally. Project website: this https URL
Abstract:The task of financial analysis primarily encompasses two key areas: stock trend prediction and the corresponding financial question answering. Currently, machine learning and deep learning algorithms (ML&DL) have been widely applied for stock trend predictions, leading to significant progress. However, these methods fail to provide reasons for predictions, lacking interpretability and reasoning processes. Also, they can not integrate textual information such as financial news or reports. Meanwhile, large language models (LLMs) have remarkable textual understanding and generation ability. But due to the scarcity of financial training datasets and limited integration with real-time knowledge, LLMs still suffer from hallucinations and are unable to keep up with the latest information. To tackle these challenges, we first release AlphaFin datasets, combining traditional research datasets, real-time financial data, and handwritten chain-of-thought (CoT) data. It has a positive impact on training LLMs for completing financial analysis. We then use AlphaFin datasets to benchmark a state-of-the-art method, called Stock-Chain, for effectively tackling the financial analysis task, which integrates retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) techniques. Extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on financial analysis.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [184]
标题:  An Upper Bound on the Weisfeiler-Leman Dimension
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12581
作者:  Thomas Schneider,  Pascal Schweitzer
备注:  
Abstract:The Weisfeiler-Leman (WL) dimension is a standard measure in descriptive complexity theory for the structural complexity of a graph. We prove that the WL-dimension of a graph on $n$ vertices is at most $3/20 \cdot n + o(n)= 0.15 \cdot n + o(n)$. The proof develops various techniques to analyze the structure of coherent configurations. This includes sufficient conditions under which a fiber can be restored up to isomorphism if it is removed, a recursive proof exploiting a degree reduction and treewidth bounds, as well as an analysis of interspaces involving small fibers. As a base case, we also analyze the dimension of coherent configurations with small fiber size and thereby graphs with small color class size.
Subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [185]
标题:  Real-IAD: A Real-World Multi-View Dataset for Benchmarking Versatile  Industrial Anomaly Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12580
作者:  Chengjie Wang,  Wenbing Zhu,  Bin-Bin Gao,  Zhenye Gan,  Jianning Zhang,  Zhihao Gu,  Shuguang Qian,  Mingang Chen,  Lizhuang Ma
备注:  It is accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:Industrial anomaly detection (IAD) has garnered significant attention and experienced rapid development. However, the recent development of IAD approach has encountered certain difficulties due to dataset limitations. On the one hand, most of the state-of-the-art methods have achieved saturation (over 99% in AUROC) on mainstream datasets such as MVTec, and the differences of methods cannot be well distinguished, leading to a significant gap between public datasets and actual application scenarios. On the other hand, the research on various new practical anomaly detection settings is limited by the scale of the dataset, posing a risk of overfitting in evaluation results. Therefore, we propose a large-scale, Real-world, and multi-view Industrial Anomaly Detection dataset, named Real-IAD, which contains 150K high-resolution images of 30 different objects, an order of magnitude larger than existing datasets. It has a larger range of defect area and ratio proportions, making it more challenging than previous datasets. To make the dataset closer to real application scenarios, we adopted a multi-view shooting method and proposed sample-level evaluation metrics. In addition, beyond the general unsupervised anomaly detection setting, we propose a new setting for Fully Unsupervised Industrial Anomaly Detection (FUIAD) based on the observation that the yield rate in industrial production is usually greater than 60%, which has more practical application value. Finally, we report the results of popular IAD methods on the Real-IAD dataset, providing a highly challenging benchmark to promote the development of the IAD field.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [186]
标题:  Self-Orthogonal Codes from Vectorial Dual-Bent Functions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12578
作者:  Jiaxin Wang,  Yadi Wei,  Fang-Wei Fu,  Juan Li
备注:  
Abstract:Self-orthogonal codes are a significant class of linear codes in coding theory and have attracted a lot of attention. In \cite{HLL2023Te,LH2023Se}, $p$-ary self-orthogonal codes were constructed by using $p$-ary weakly regular bent functions, where $p$ is an odd prime. In \cite{WH2023Se}, two classes of non-degenerate quadratic forms were used to construct $q$-ary self-orthogonal codes, where $q$ is a power of a prime. In this paper, we construct new families of $q$-ary self-orthogonal codes using vectorial dual-bent functions. Some classes of at least almost optimal linear codes are obtained from the dual codes of the constructed self-orthogonal codes. In some cases, we completely determine the weight distributions of the constructed self-orthogonal codes. From the view of vectorial dual-bent functions, we illustrate that the works on constructing self-orthogonal codes from $p$-ary weakly regular bent functions \cite{HLL2023Te,LH2023Se} and non-degenerate quadratic forms with $q$ being odd \cite{WH2023Se} can be obtained by our results. We partially answer an open problem on determining the weight distribution of a class of self-orthogonal codes given in \cite{LH2023Se}. As applications, we construct new infinite families of at least almost optimal $q$-ary linear complementary dual codes (for short, LCD codes) and quantum codes.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [187]
标题:  Rate-optimal higher-order adaptive conforming FEM for biharmonic  eigenvalue problems on polygonal domains
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12577
作者:  Carsten Carstensen,  Benedikt Gräßle
备注:  
Abstract:The a posteriori error analysis of the classical Argyris finite element methods dates back to 1996, while the optimal convergence rates of associated adaptive finite element schemes are established only very recently in 2021. It took a long time to realise the necessity of an extension of the classical finite element spaces to make them hierarchical. This paper establishes the novel adaptive schemes for the biharmonic eigenvalue problems and provides a mathematical proof of optimal convergence rates towards a simple eigenvalue and numerical evidence thereof. This makes the suggested algorithm highly competitive and clearly justifies the higher computational and implementational costs compared to low-order nonconforming schemes. The numerical experiments provide overwhelming evidence that higher polynomial degrees pay off with higher convergence rates and underline that adaptive mesh-refining is mandatory. Five computational benchmarks display accurate reference eigenvalues up to 30 digits.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [188]
标题:  EAS-SNN: End-to-End Adaptive Sampling and Representation for Event-based  Detection with Recurrent Spiking Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12574
作者:  Ziming Wang,  Ziling Wang,  Huaning Li,  Lang Qin,  Runhao Jiang,  De Ma,  Huajin Tang
备注:  
Abstract:Event cameras, with their high dynamic range and temporal resolution, are ideally suited for object detection, especially under scenarios with motion blur and challenging lighting conditions. However, while most existing approaches prioritize optimizing spatiotemporal representations with advanced detection backbones and early aggregation functions, the crucial issue of adaptive event sampling remains largely unaddressed. Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs), which operate on an event-driven paradigm through sparse spike communication, emerge as a natural fit for addressing this challenge. In this study, we discover that the neural dynamics of spiking neurons align closely with the behavior of an ideal temporal event sampler. Motivated by this insight, we propose a novel adaptive sampling module that leverages recurrent convolutional SNNs enhanced with temporal memory, facilitating a fully end-to-end learnable framework for event-based detection. Additionally, we introduce Residual Potential Dropout (RPD) and Spike-Aware Training (SAT) to regulate potential distribution and address performance degradation encountered in spike-based sampling modules. Through rigorous testing on neuromorphic datasets for event-based detection, our approach demonstrably surpasses existing state-of-the-art spike-based methods, achieving superior performance with significantly fewer parameters and time steps. For instance, our method achieves a 4.4\% mAP improvement on the Gen1 dataset, while requiring 38\% fewer parameters and three time steps. Moreover, the applicability and effectiveness of our adaptive sampling methodology extend beyond SNNs, as demonstrated through further validation on conventional non-spiking detection models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [189]
标题:  Lifting Multi-View Detection and Tracking to the Bird's Eye View
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12573
作者:  Torben Teepe,  Philipp Wolters,  Johannes Gilg,  Fabian Herzog,  Gerhard Rigoll
备注:  
Abstract:Taking advantage of multi-view aggregation presents a promising solution to tackle challenges such as occlusion and missed detection in multi-object tracking and detection. Recent advancements in multi-view detection and 3D object recognition have significantly improved performance by strategically projecting all views onto the ground plane and conducting detection analysis from a Bird's Eye View. In this paper, we compare modern lifting methods, both parameter-free and parameterized, to multi-view aggregation. Additionally, we present an architecture that aggregates the features of multiple times steps to learn robust detection and combines appearance- and motion-based cues for tracking. Most current tracking approaches either focus on pedestrians or vehicles. In our work, we combine both branches and add new challenges to multi-view detection with cross-scene setups. Our method generalizes to three public datasets across two domains: (1) pedestrian: Wildtrack and MultiviewX, and (2) roadside perception: Synthehicle, achieving state-of-the-art performance in detection and tracking. this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [190]
标题:  Compound Expression Recognition via Multi Model Ensemble
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12572
作者:  Jun Yu,  Jichao Zhu,  Wangyuan Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:Compound Expression Recognition (CER) plays a crucial role in interpersonal interactions. Due to the existence of Compound Expressions , human emotional expressions are complex, requiring consideration of both local and global facial expressions to make judgments. In this paper, to address this issue, we propose a solution based on ensemble learning methods for Compound Expression Recognition. Specifically, our task is classification, where we train three expression classification models based on convolutional networks, Vision Transformers, and multi-scale local attention networks. Then, through model ensemble using late fusion, we merge the outputs of multiple models to predict the final result. Our method achieves high accuracy on RAF-DB and is able to recognize expressions through zero-shot on certain portions of C-EXPR-DB.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [191]
标题:  Optimizing Reconfigurable Antenna MIMO Systems with Coherent Ising  Machines
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12571
作者:  Ioannis Krikidis,  Abhishek Kumar Singh,  Kyle Jamieson
备注:  
Abstract:Reconfigurable antenna multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) is a promising technology for upcoming 6G communication systems. In this paper, we deal with the problem of configuration selection for reconfigurable antenna MIMO by leveraging Coherent Ising Machines (CIMs). By adopting the CIM as a heuristic solver for the Ising problem, the optimal antenna configuration that maximizes the received signal-to-noise ratio is investigated. A mathematical framework that converts the selection problem into a CIM-compatible unconstrained quadratic formulation is presented. Numerical studies show that the proposed CIM-based design outperforms classical counterparts and achieves near-optimal performance (similar to exponentially complex exhaustive searching) while ensuring polynomial complexity.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [192]
标题:  Adapting Visual-Language Models for Generalizable Anomaly Detection in  Medical Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12570
作者:  Chaoqin Huang,  Aofan Jiang,  Jinghao Feng,  Ya Zhang,  Xinchao Wang,  Yanfeng Wang
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Recent advancements in large-scale visual-language pre-trained models have led to significant progress in zero-/few-shot anomaly detection within natural image domains. However, the substantial domain divergence between natural and medical images limits the effectiveness of these methodologies in medical anomaly detection. This paper introduces a novel lightweight multi-level adaptation and comparison framework to repurpose the CLIP model for medical anomaly detection. Our approach integrates multiple residual adapters into the pre-trained visual encoder, enabling a stepwise enhancement of visual features across different levels. This multi-level adaptation is guided by multi-level, pixel-wise visual-language feature alignment loss functions, which recalibrate the model's focus from object semantics in natural imagery to anomaly identification in medical images. The adapted features exhibit improved generalization across various medical data types, even in zero-shot scenarios where the model encounters unseen medical modalities and anatomical regions during training. Our experiments on medical anomaly detection benchmarks demonstrate that our method significantly surpasses current state-of-the-art models, with an average AUC improvement of 6.24% and 7.33% for anomaly classification, 2.03% and 2.37% for anomaly segmentation, under the zero-shot and few-shot settings, respectively. Source code is available at: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [193]
标题:  Memory-Efficient and Secure DNN Inference on TrustZone-enabled Consumer  IoT Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12568
作者:  Xueshuo Xie,  Haoxu Wang,  Zhaolong Jian,  Tao Li,  Wei Wang,  Zhiwei Xu,  Guiling Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Edge intelligence enables resource-demanding Deep Neural Network (DNN) inference without transferring original data, addressing concerns about data privacy in consumer Internet of Things (IoT) devices. For privacy-sensitive applications, deploying models in hardware-isolated trusted execution environments (TEEs) becomes essential. However, the limited secure memory in TEEs poses challenges for deploying DNN inference, and alternative techniques like model partitioning and offloading introduce performance degradation and security issues. In this paper, we present a novel approach for advanced model deployment in TrustZone that ensures comprehensive privacy preservation during model inference. We design a memory-efficient management method to support memory-demanding inference in TEEs. By adjusting the memory priority, we effectively mitigate memory leakage risks and memory overlap conflicts, resulting in 32 lines of code alterations in the trusted operating system. Additionally, we leverage two tiny libraries: S-Tinylib (2,538 LoCs), a tiny deep learning library, and Tinylibm (827 LoCs), a tiny math library, to support efficient inference in TEEs. We implemented a prototype on Raspberry Pi 3B+ and evaluated it using three well-known lightweight DNN models. The experimental results demonstrate that our design significantly improves inference speed by 3.13 times and reduces power consumption by over 66.5% compared to non-memory optimization method in TEEs.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [194]
标题:  NN-ETM: Enabling safe neural network-based event-triggering mechanisms  for consensus problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12567
作者:  Irene Perez-Salesa,  Rodrigo Aldana-Lopez,  Carlos Sagues
备注:  
Abstract:In networked control applications, event-triggering mechanisms (ETMs) reduce the communication load while ensuring performance guarantees. However, the design of ETMs is becoming increasingly complex, particularly for decentralized multi-agent and consensus setups, where the condition used to trigger communication might incorporate the agent's local information and the information received from neighbors. This typically results in ad-hoc solutions, which may only work for the consensus protocols under consideration. In this work, we aim to safely incorporate neural networks in the ETM to provide a general and flexible solution while ensuring guaranteed performance. To decouple the stability analysis of the consensus protocol from the abstraction of the neural network in the ETM, we first derive design criteria for the consensus and ETM pair, which allow independent analysis of each element under mild constraints. As a result, we propose NN-ETM, a novel ETM featuring a neural network, which provides an all-purpose solution to optimize communication in consensus problems while preserving the stability guarantees of the consensus protocol.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [195]
标题:  Context-based Fast Recommendation Strategy for Long User Behavior  Sequence in Meituan Waimai
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12566
作者:  Zhichao Feng,  Junjiie Xie,  Kaiyuan Li,  Yu Qin,  Pengfei Wang,  Qianzhong Li,  Bin Yin,  Xiang Li,  Wei Lin,  Shangguang Wang
备注:  9 pages, accepted by WWW 2024 Industry Track
Abstract:In the recommender system of Meituan Waimai, we are dealing with ever-lengthening user behavior sequences, which pose an increasing challenge to modeling user preference effectively. Existing sequential recommendation models often fail to capture long-term dependencies or are too complex, complicating the fulfillment of Meituan Waimai's unique business needs. To better model user interests, we consider selecting relevant sub-sequences from users' extensive historical behaviors based on their preferences. In this specific scenario, we've noticed that the contexts in which users interact have a significant impact on their preferences. For this purpose, we introduce a novel method called Context-based Fast Recommendation Strategy to tackle the issue of long sequences. We first identify contexts that share similar user preferences with the target context and then locate the corresponding PoIs based on these identified contexts. This approach eliminates the necessity to select a sub-sequence for every candidate PoI, thereby avoiding high time complexity. Specifically, we implement a prototype-based approach to pinpoint contexts that mirror similar user preferences. To amplify accuracy and interpretability, we employ JS divergence of PoI attributes such as categories and prices as a measure of similarity between contexts. A temporal graph integrating both prototype and context nodes helps incorporate temporal information. We then identify appropriate prototypes considering both target contexts and short-term user preferences. Following this, we utilize contexts aligned with these prototypes to generate a sub-sequence, aimed at predicting CTR and CTCVR scores with target attention. Since its inception in 2023, this strategy has been adopted in Meituan Waimai's display recommender system, leading to a 4.6% surge in CTR and a 4.2% boost in GMV.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [196]
标题:  Simple Hack for Transformers against Heavy Long-Text Classification on a  Time- and Memory-Limited GPU Service
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12563
作者:  Mirza Alim Mutasodirin,  Radityo Eko Prasojo,  Achmad F. Abka,  Hanif Rasyidi
备注:  The 10th International Conference on Advanced Informatics: Concepts, Theory, and Applications (ICAICTA 2023)
Abstract:Many NLP researchers rely on free computational services, such as Google Colab, to fine-tune their Transformer models, causing a limitation for hyperparameter optimization (HPO) in long-text classification due to the method having quadratic complexity and needing a bigger resource. In Indonesian, only a few works were found on long-text classification using Transformers. Most only use a small amount of data and do not report any HPO. In this study, using 18k news articles, we investigate which pretrained models are recommended to use based on the output length of the tokenizer. We then compare some hacks to shorten and enrich the sequences, which are the removals of stopwords, punctuation, low-frequency words, and recurring words. To get a fair comparison, we propose and run an efficient and dynamic HPO procedure that can be done gradually on a limited resource and does not require a long-running optimization library. Using the best hack found, we then compare 512, 256, and 128 tokens length. We find that removing stopwords while keeping punctuation and low-frequency words is the best hack. Some of our setups manage to outperform taking 512 first tokens using a smaller 128 or 256 first tokens which manage to represent the same information while requiring less computational resources. The findings could help developers to efficiently pursue optimal performance of the models using limited resources.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [197]
标题:  Equity through Access: A Case for Small-scale Deep Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12562
作者:  Raghavendra Selvan,  Bob Pepin,  Christian Igel,  Gabrielle Samuel,  Erik B Dam
备注:  Source code available at this https URL
Abstract:The recent advances in deep learning (DL) have been accelerated by access to large-scale data and compute. These large-scale resources have been used to train progressively larger models which are resource intensive in terms of compute, data, energy, and carbon emissions. These costs are becoming a new type of entry barrier to researchers and practitioners with limited access to resources at such scale, particularly in the Global South. In this work, we take a comprehensive look at the landscape of existing DL models for vision tasks and demonstrate their usefulness in settings where resources are limited. To account for the resource consumption of DL models, we introduce a novel measure to estimate the performance per resource unit, which we call the PePR score. Using a diverse family of 131 unique DL architectures (spanning 1M to 130M trainable parameters) and three medical image datasets, we capture trends about the performance-resource trade-offs. In applications like medical image analysis, we argue that small-scale, specialized models are better than striving for large-scale models. Furthermore, we show that using pretrained models can significantly reduce the computational resources and data required. We hope this work will encourage the community to focus on improving AI equity by developing methods and models with smaller resource footprints.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [198]
标题:  Confidence Self-Calibration for Multi-Label Class-Incremental Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12559
作者:  Kaile Du,  Yifan Zhou,  Fan Lyu,  Yuyang Li,  Chen Lu,  Guangcan Liu
备注:  
Abstract:The partial label challenge in Multi-Label Class-Incremental Learning (MLCIL) arises when only the new classes are labeled during training, while past and future labels remain unavailable. This issue leads to a proliferation of false-positive errors due to erroneously high confidence multi-label predictions, exacerbating catastrophic forgetting within the disjoint label space. In this paper, we aim to refine multi-label confidence calibration in MLCIL and propose a Confidence Self-Calibration (CSC) approach. Firstly, for label relationship calibration, we introduce a class-incremental graph convolutional network that bridges the isolated label spaces by constructing learnable, dynamically extended label relationship graph. Then, for confidence calibration, we present a max-entropy regularization for each multi-label increment, facilitating confidence self-calibration through the penalization of over-confident output distributions. Our approach attains new state-of-the-art results in MLCIL tasks on both MS-COCO and PASCAL VOC datasets, with the calibration of label confidences confirmed through our methodology.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [199]
标题:  Numerical approximation of a class of constrained Hamilton-Jacobi  equations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12557
作者:  Benoît Gaudeul,  Hélène Hivert
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we introduce a framework for the discretization of a class of constrained Hamilton-Jacobi equations, a system coupling a Hamilton-Jacobi equation with a Lagrange multiplier determined by the constraint. The equation is non-local, and the constraint has bounded variations. We show that, under a set of general hypothesis, the approximation obtained with a finite-differences monotonic scheme, converges towards the viscosity solution of the constrained Hamilton-Jacobi equation. Constrained Hamilton-Jacobi equations often arise as the long time and small mutation asymptotics of population models in quantitative genetics. As an example, we detail the construction of a scheme for the limit of an integral Lotka-Volterra equation. We also construct and analyze an Asymptotic-Preserving (AP) scheme for the model outside of the asymptotics. We prove that it is stable along the transition towards the asymptotics. The theoretical analysis of the schemes is illustrated and discussed with numerical simulations. The AP scheme is also used to conjecture the asymptotic behavior of the integral Lotka-Volterra equation, when the environment varies in time.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [200]
标题:  Factorized Learning Assisted with Large Language Model for Gloss-free  Sign Language Translation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12556
作者:  Zhigang Chen,  Benjia Zhou,  Jun Li,  Jun Wan,  Zhen Lei,  Ning Jiang,  Quan Lu,  Guoqing Zhao
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING-2024
Abstract:Previous Sign Language Translation (SLT) methods achieve superior performance by relying on gloss annotations. However, labeling high-quality glosses is a labor-intensive task, which limits the further development of SLT. Although some approaches work towards gloss-free SLT through jointly training the visual encoder and translation network, these efforts still suffer from poor performance and inefficient use of the powerful Large Language Model (LLM). Most seriously, we find that directly introducing LLM into SLT will lead to insufficient learning of visual representations as LLM dominates the learning curve. To address these problems, we propose Factorized Learning assisted with Large Language Model (FLa-LLM) for gloss-free SLT. Concretely, we factorize the training process into two stages. In the visual initialing stage, we employ a lightweight translation model after the visual encoder to pre-train the visual encoder. In the LLM fine-tuning stage, we freeze the acquired knowledge in the visual encoder and integrate it with a pre-trained LLM to inspire the LLM's translation potential. This factorized training strategy proves to be highly effective as evidenced by significant improvements achieved across three SLT datasets which are all conducted under the gloss-free setting.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [201]
标题:  Pretraining Codomain Attention Neural Operators for Solving Multiphysics  PDEs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12553
作者:  Md Ashiqur Rahman,  Robert Joseph George,  Mogab Elleithy,  Daniel Leibovici,  Zongyi Li,  Boris Bonev,  Colin White,  Julius Berner,  Raymond A. Yeh,  Jean Kossaifi,  Kamyar Azizzadenesheli,  Anima Anandkumar
备注:  
Abstract:Existing neural operator architectures face challenges when solving multiphysics problems with coupled partial differential equations (PDEs), due to complex geometries, interactions between physical variables, and the lack of large amounts of high-resolution training data. To address these issues, we propose Codomain Attention Neural Operator (CoDA-NO), which tokenizes functions along the codomain or channel space, enabling self-supervised learning or pretraining of multiple PDE systems. Specifically, we extend positional encoding, self-attention, and normalization layers to the function space. CoDA-NO can learn representations of different PDE systems with a single model. We evaluate CoDA-NO's potential as a backbone for learning multiphysics PDEs over multiple systems by considering few-shot learning settings. On complex downstream tasks with limited data, such as fluid flow simulations and fluid-structure interactions, we found CoDA-NO to outperform existing methods on the few-shot learning task by over $36\%$. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [202]
标题:  M2DA: Multi-Modal Fusion Transformer Incorporating Driver Attention for  Autonomous Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12552
作者:  Dongyang Xu,  Haokun Li,  Qingfan Wang,  Ziying Song,  Lei Chen,  Hanming Deng
备注:  
Abstract:End-to-end autonomous driving has witnessed remarkable progress. However, the extensive deployment of autonomous vehicles has yet to be realized, primarily due to 1) inefficient multi-modal environment perception: how to integrate data from multi-modal sensors more efficiently; 2) non-human-like scene understanding: how to effectively locate and predict critical risky agents in traffic scenarios like an experienced driver. To overcome these challenges, in this paper, we propose a Multi-Modal fusion transformer incorporating Driver Attention (M2DA) for autonomous driving. To better fuse multi-modal data and achieve higher alignment between different modalities, a novel Lidar-Vision-Attention-based Fusion (LVAFusion) module is proposed. By incorporating driver attention, we empower the human-like scene understanding ability to autonomous vehicles to identify crucial areas within complex scenarios precisely and ensure safety. We conduct experiments on the CARLA simulator and achieve state-of-the-art performance with less data in closed-loop benchmarks. Source codes are available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/M2DA-4772.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [203]
标题:  RGBD GS-ICP SLAM
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12550
作者:  Seongbo Ha,  Jiung Yeon,  Hyeonwoo Yu
备注:  
Abstract:Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) with dense representation plays a key role in robotics, Virtual Reality (VR), and Augmented Reality (AR) applications. Recent advancements in dense representation SLAM have highlighted the potential of leveraging neural scene representation and 3D Gaussian representation for high-fidelity spatial representation. In this paper, we propose a novel dense representation SLAM approach with a fusion of Generalized Iterative Closest Point (G-ICP) and 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS). In contrast to existing methods, we utilize a single Gaussian map for both tracking and mapping, resulting in mutual benefits. Through the exchange of covariances between tracking and mapping processes with scale alignment techniques, we minimize redundant computations and achieve an efficient system. Additionally, we enhance tracking accuracy and mapping quality through our keyframe selection methods. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, showing an incredibly fast speed up to 107 FPS (for the entire system) and superior quality of the reconstructed map.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [204]
标题:  AffineQuant: Affine Transformation Quantization for Large Language  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12544
作者:  Yuexiao Ma,  Huixia Li,  Xiawu Zheng,  Feng Ling,  Xuefeng Xiao,  Rui Wang,  Shilei Wen,  Fei Chao,  Rongrong Ji
备注:  ICLR 2024
Abstract:The significant resource requirements associated with Large-scale Language Models (LLMs) have generated considerable interest in the development of techniques aimed at compressing and accelerating neural networks. Among these techniques, Post-Training Quantization (PTQ) has emerged as a subject of considerable interest due to its noteworthy compression efficiency and cost-effectiveness in the context of training. Existing PTQ methods for LLMs limit the optimization scope to scaling transformations between pre- and post-quantization weights. In this paper, we advocate for the direct optimization using equivalent Affine transformations in PTQ (AffineQuant). This approach extends the optimization scope and thus significantly minimizing quantization errors. Additionally, by employing the corresponding inverse matrix, we can ensure equivalence between the pre- and post-quantization outputs of PTQ, thereby maintaining its efficiency and generalization capabilities. To ensure the invertibility of the transformation during optimization, we further introduce a gradual mask optimization method. This method initially focuses on optimizing the diagonal elements and gradually extends to the other elements. Such an approach aligns with the Levy-Desplanques theorem, theoretically ensuring invertibility of the transformation. As a result, significant performance improvements are evident across different LLMs on diverse datasets. To illustrate, we attain a C4 perplexity of 15.76 (2.26 lower vs 18.02 in OmniQuant) on the LLaMA2-7B model of W4A4 quantization without overhead. On zero-shot tasks, AffineQuant achieves an average of 58.61 accuracy (1.98 lower vs 56.63 in OmniQuant) when using 4/4-bit quantization for LLaMA-30B, which setting a new state-of-the-art benchmark for PTQ in LLMs.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [205]
标题:  HCPM: Hierarchical Candidates Pruning for Efficient Detector-Free  Matching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12543
作者:  Ying Chen,  Yong Liu,  Kai Wu,  Qiang Nie,  Shang Xu,  Huifang Ma,  Bing Wang,  Chengjie Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Deep learning-based image matching methods play a crucial role in computer vision, yet they often suffer from substantial computational demands. To tackle this challenge, we present HCPM, an efficient and detector-free local feature-matching method that employs hierarchical pruning to optimize the matching pipeline. In contrast to recent detector-free methods that depend on an exhaustive set of coarse-level candidates for matching, HCPM selectively concentrates on a concise subset of informative candidates, resulting in fewer computational candidates and enhanced matching efficiency. The method comprises a self-pruning stage for selecting reliable candidates and an interactive-pruning stage that identifies correlated patches at the coarse level. Our results reveal that HCPM significantly surpasses existing methods in terms of speed while maintaining high accuracy. The source code will be made available upon publication.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [206]
标题:  TAGS: Real-time Intrusion Detection with Tag-Propagation-based  Provenance Graph Alignment on Streaming Events
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12541
作者:  Zhenyuan Li,  Yangyang Wei,  Xiangmin Shen,  Lingzhi Wang,  Yan Chen,  Haitao Xu,  Shouling Ji,  Fan Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The evolution and advancement of cyberattacks pose challenges to existing security products. Recent concentrated research on provenance graph-based detection has proved its effectiveness in attack detection and investigation. However, implementing these approaches in practice encounters challenges such as high overhead, slow responsiveness, and low interpretability and extensibility. Towards practical attack detection and investigation with provenance graphs, we propose TAGS, a tag-propagation-based streaming provenance graph alignment system. Utilizing the tag-based intermediate result caching mechanism alongside carefully crafted propagation rules, we eliminate the need to store and duplicate raw data processing. This approach effectively mitigates in-memory storage requirements and minimizes data processing overhead, facilitating rapid on-stream graph alignment while significantly conserving CPU and memory resources. As a result, TAGS can detect and investigate various cyber-attacks in real-time. Moreover, TAGS allows analysts to customize attack query graphs flexibly to identify extended attacks in data streams. We conduct experimental evaluations on two large-scale public datasets containing 257.42 GB of audit logs with 12 relevant query graphs of varying sizes, covering multiple attack techniques and scenarios. The results demonstrate that TAGS is sufficiently efficient to process 176K events per second while sufficiently accurately identifying all 29 alignments in massive data. Moreover, it can effectively handle the dependency explosion problem with steady, low-level memory consumption (less than 300MB), producing only 3 false positives. Overall, the performance of TAGS significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [207]
标题:  Community detection by spectral methods in multi-layer networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12540
作者:  Huan Qing
备注:  21 pages, 12 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:Community detection in multi-layer networks is a crucial problem in network analysis. In this paper, we analyze the performance of two spectral clustering algorithms for community detection within the multi-layer degree-corrected stochastic block model (MLDCSBM) framework. One algorithm is based on the sum of adjacency matrices, while the other utilizes the debiased sum of squared adjacency matrices. We establish consistency results for community detection using these methods under MLDCSBM as the size of the network and/or the number of layers increases. Our theorems demonstrate the advantages of utilizing multiple layers for community detection. Moreover, our analysis indicates that spectral clustering with the debiased sum of squared adjacency matrices is generally superior to spectral clustering with the sum of adjacency matrices. Numerical simulations confirm that our algorithm, employing the debiased sum of squared adjacency matrices, surpasses existing methods for community detection in multi-layer networks. Finally, the analysis of several real-world multi-layer networks yields meaningful insights.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [208]
标题:  Multi-View Active Sensing for Human-Robot Interaction via Hierarchically  Connected Tree
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12538
作者:  Yuanjiong Ying,  Xian Huang,  Wei Dong
备注:  
Abstract:Comprehensive perception of human beings is the prerequisite to ensure the safety of human-robot interaction. Currently, prevailing visual sensing approach typically involves a single static camera, resulting in a restricted and occluded field of view. In our work, we develop an active vision system using multiple cameras to dynamically capture multi-source RGB-D data. An integrated human sensing strategy based on a hierarchically connected tree structure is proposed to fuse localized visual information. Constituting the tree model are the nodes representing keypoints and the edges representing keyparts, which are consistently interconnected to preserve the structural constraints during multi-source fusion. Utilizing RGB-D data and HRNet, the 3D positions of keypoints are analytically estimated, and their presence is inferred through a sliding widow of confidence scores. Subsequently, the point clouds of reliable keyparts are extracted by drawing occlusion-resistant masks, enabling fine registration between data clouds and cylindrical model following the hierarchical order. Experimental results demonstrate that our method enhances keypart recognition recall from 69.20% to 90.10%, compared to employing a single static camera. Furthermore, in overcoming challenges related to localized and occluded perception, the robotic arm's obstacle avoidance capabilities are effectively improved.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [209]
标题:  Prompt-Guided Adaptive Model Transformation for Whole Slide Image  Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12537
作者:  Yi Lin,  Zhengjie Zhu,  Kwang-Ting Cheng,  Hao Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Multiple instance learning (MIL) has emerged as a popular method for classifying histopathology whole slide images (WSIs). Existing approaches typically rely on frozen pre-trained models to extract instance features, neglecting the substantial domain shift between pre-training natural and histopathological images. To address this issue, we propose PAMT, a novel Prompt-guided Adaptive Model Transformation framework that enhances MIL classification performance by seamlessly adapting pre-trained models to the specific characteristics of histopathology data. To capture the intricate histopathology distribution, we introduce Representative Patch Sampling (RPS) and Prototypical Visual Prompt (PVP) to reform the input data, building a compact while informative representation. Furthermore, to narrow the domain gap, we introduce Adaptive Model Transformation (AMT) that integrates adapter blocks within the feature extraction pipeline, enabling the pre-trained models to learn domain-specific features. We rigorously evaluate our approach on two publicly available datasets, Camelyon16 and TCGA-NSCLC, showcasing substantial improvements across various MIL models. Our findings affirm the potential of PAMT to set a new benchmark in WSI classification, underscoring the value of a targeted reprogramming approach.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [210]
标题:  Vox-Fusion++: Voxel-based Neural Implicit Dense Tracking and Mapping  with Multi-maps
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12536
作者:  Hongjia Zhai,  Hai Li,  Xingrui Yang,  Gan Huang,  Yuhang Ming,  Hujun Bao,  Guofeng Zhang
备注:  14 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2210.15858
Abstract:In this paper, we introduce Vox-Fusion++, a multi-maps-based robust dense tracking and mapping system that seamlessly fuses neural implicit representations with traditional volumetric fusion techniques. Building upon the concept of implicit mapping and positioning systems, our approach extends its applicability to real-world scenarios. Our system employs a voxel-based neural implicit surface representation, enabling efficient encoding and optimization of the scene within each voxel. To handle diverse environments without prior knowledge, we incorporate an octree-based structure for scene division and dynamic expansion. To achieve real-time performance, we propose a high-performance multi-process framework. This ensures the system's suitability for applications with stringent time constraints. Additionally, we adopt the idea of multi-maps to handle large-scale scenes, and leverage loop detection and hierarchical pose optimization strategies to reduce long-term pose drift and remove duplicate geometry. Through comprehensive evaluations, we demonstrate that our method outperforms previous methods in terms of reconstruction quality and accuracy across various scenarios. We also show that our Vox-Fusion++ can be used in augmented reality and collaborative mapping applications. Our source code will be publicly available at \url{this https URL}
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [211]
标题:  High-Fidelity SLAM Using Gaussian Splatting with Rendering-Guided  Densification and Regularized Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12535
作者:  Shuo Sun,  Malcolm Mielle,  Achim J. Lilienthal,  Martin Magnusson
备注:  submitted to IROS24
Abstract:We propose a dense RGBD SLAM system based on 3D Gaussian Splatting that provides metrically accurate pose tracking and visually realistic reconstruction. To this end, we first propose a Gaussian densification strategy based on the rendering loss to map unobserved areas and refine reobserved areas. Second, we introduce extra regularization parameters to alleviate the forgetting problem in the continuous mapping problem, where parameters tend to overfit the latest frame and result in decreasing rendering quality for previous frames. Both mapping and tracking are performed with Gaussian parameters by minimizing re-rendering loss in a differentiable way. Compared to recent neural and concurrently developed gaussian splatting RGBD SLAM baselines, our method achieves state-of-the-art results on the synthetic dataset Replica and competitive results on the real-world dataset TUM.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [212]
标题:  ExACT: Language-guided Conceptual Reasoning and Uncertainty Estimation  for Event-based Action Recognition and More
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12534
作者:  Jiazhou Zhou,  Xu Zheng,  Yuanhuiyi Lyu,  Lin Wang
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:Event cameras have recently been shown beneficial for practical vision tasks, such as action recognition, thanks to their high temporal resolution, power efficiency, and reduced privacy concerns. However, current research is hindered by 1) the difficulty in processing events because of their prolonged duration and dynamic actions with complex and ambiguous semantics and 2) the redundant action depiction of the event frame representation with fixed stacks. We find language naturally conveys abundant semantic information, rendering it stunningly superior in reducing semantic uncertainty. In light of this, we propose ExACT, a novel approach that, for the first time, tackles event-based action recognition from a cross-modal conceptualizing perspective. Our ExACT brings two technical contributions. Firstly, we propose an adaptive fine-grained event (AFE) representation to adaptively filter out the repeated events for the stationary objects while preserving dynamic ones. This subtly enhances the performance of ExACT without extra computational cost. Then, we propose a conceptual reasoning-based uncertainty estimation module, which simulates the recognition process to enrich the semantic representation. In particular, conceptual reasoning builds the temporal relation based on the action semantics, and uncertainty estimation tackles the semantic uncertainty of actions based on the distributional representation. Experiments show that our ExACT achieves superior recognition accuracy of 94.83%(+2.23%), 90.10%(+37.47%) and 67.24% on PAF, HARDVS and our SeAct datasets respectively.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [213]
标题:  To Help or Not to Help: LLM-based Attentive Support for Human-Robot  Group Interactions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12533
作者:  Daniel Tanneberg,  Felix Ocker,  Stephan Hasler,  Joerg Deigmoeller,  Anna Belardinelli,  Chao Wang,  Heiko Wersing,  Bernhard Sendhoff,  Michael Gienger
备注:  8 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:How can a robot provide unobtrusive physical support within a group of humans? We present Attentive Support, a novel interaction concept for robots to support a group of humans. It combines scene perception, dialogue acquisition, situation understanding, and behavior generation with the common-sense reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). In addition to following user instructions, Attentive Support is capable of deciding when and how to support the humans, and when to remain silent to not disturb the group. With a diverse set of scenarios, we show and evaluate the robot's attentive behavior, which supports and helps the humans when required, while not disturbing if no help is needed.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [214]
标题:  UniBind: LLM-Augmented Unified and Balanced Representation Space to Bind  Them All
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12532
作者:  Yuanhuiyi Lyu,  Xu Zheng,  Jiazhou Zhou,  Lin Wang
备注:  Accepted to CVPR2024
Abstract:We present UniBind, a flexible and efficient approach that learns a unified representation space for seven diverse modalities-- images, text, audio, point cloud, thermal, video, and event data. Existing works, eg., ImageBind, treat the image as the central modality and build an image-centered representation space; however, the space may be sub-optimal as it leads to an unbalanced representation space among all modalities. Moreover, the category names are directly used to extract text embeddings for the downstream tasks, making it hardly possible to represent the semantics of multi-modal data. The 'out-of-the-box' insight of our UniBind is to make the alignment center modality-agnostic and further learn a unified and balanced representation space, empowered by the large language models (LLMs). UniBind is superior in its flexible application to all CLIP-style models and delivers remarkable performance boosts. To make this possible, we 1) construct a knowledge base of text embeddings with the help of LLMs and multi-modal LLMs; 2) adaptively build LLM-augmented class-wise embedding center on top of the knowledge base and encoded visual embeddings; 3) align all the embeddings to the LLM-augmented embedding center via contrastive learning to achieve a unified and balanced representation space. UniBind shows strong zero-shot recognition performance gains over prior arts by an average of 6.36%. Finally, we achieve new state-of-the-art performance, eg., a 6.75% gain on ImageNet, on the multi-modal fine-tuning setting while reducing 90% of the learnable parameters.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [215]
标题:  PCT: Perspective Cue Training Framework for Multi-Camera BEV  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12530
作者:  Haruya Ishikawa,  Takumi Iida,  Yoshinori Konishi,  Yoshimitsu Aoki
备注:  13 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:Generating annotations for bird's-eye-view (BEV) segmentation presents significant challenges due to the scenes' complexity and the high manual annotation cost. In this work, we address these challenges by leveraging the abundance of unlabeled data available. We propose the Perspective Cue Training (PCT) framework, a novel training framework that utilizes pseudo-labels generated from unlabeled perspective images using publicly available semantic segmentation models trained on large street-view datasets. PCT applies a perspective view task head to the image encoder shared with the BEV segmentation head, effectively utilizing the unlabeled data to be trained with the generated pseudo-labels. Since image encoders are present in nearly all camera-based BEV segmentation architectures, PCT is flexible and applicable to various existing BEV architectures. PCT can be applied to various settings where unlabeled data is available. In this paper, we applied PCT for semi-supervised learning (SSL) and unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA). Additionally, we introduce strong input perturbation through Camera Dropout (CamDrop) and feature perturbation via BEV Feature Dropout (BFD), which are crucial for enhancing SSL capabilities using our teacher-student framework. Our comprehensive approach is simple and flexible but yields significant improvements over various baselines for SSL and UDA, achieving competitive performances even against the current state-of-the-art.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [216]
标题:  Contextualized Messages Boost Graph Representations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12529
作者:  Brian Godwin Lim
备注:  
Abstract:Graph neural networks (GNNs) have gained significant interest in recent years due to their ability to handle arbitrarily structured data represented as graphs. GNNs generally follow the message-passing scheme to locally update node feature representations. A graph readout function is then employed to create a representation for the entire graph. Several studies proposed different GNNs by modifying the aggregation and combination strategies of the message-passing framework, often inspired by heuristics. Nevertheless, several studies have begun exploring GNNs from a theoretical perspective based on the graph isomorphism problem which inherently assumes countable node feature representations. Yet, there are only a few theoretical works exploring GNNs with uncountable node feature representations. This paper presents a new perspective on the representational capabilities of GNNs across all levels - node-level, neighborhood-level, and graph-level - when the space of node feature representation is uncountable. From the results, a novel soft-isomorphic relational graph convolution network (SIR-GCN) is proposed that emphasizes non-linear and contextualized transformations of neighborhood feature representations. The mathematical relationship of SIR-GCN and three widely used GNNs is explored to highlight the contribution. Validation on synthetic datasets then demonstrates that SIR-GCN outperforms comparable models even in simple node and graph property prediction tasks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [217]
标题:  Prompt-based Graph Model for Joint Liberal Event Extraction and Event  Schema Induction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12526
作者:  Haochen Li,  Di Geng
备注:  
Abstract:Events are essential components of speech and texts, describing the changes in the state of entities. The event extraction task aims to identify and classify events and find their participants according to event schemas. Manually predefined event schemas have limited coverage and are hard to migrate across domains. Therefore, the researchers propose Liberal Event Extraction (LEE), which aims to extract events and discover event schemas simultaneously. However, existing LEE models rely heavily on external language knowledge bases and require the manual development of numerous rules for noise removal and knowledge alignment, which is complex and laborious. To this end, we propose a Prompt-based Graph Model for Liberal Event Extraction (PGLEE). Specifically, we use a prompt-based model to obtain candidate triggers and arguments, and then build heterogeneous event graphs to encode the structures within and between events. Experimental results prove that our approach achieves excellent performance with or without predefined event schemas, while the automatically detected event schemas are proven high quality.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [218]
标题:  GraphERE: Jointly Multiple Event-Event Relation Extraction via  Graph-Enhanced Event Embeddings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12523
作者:  Haochen Li,  Di Geng
备注:  
Abstract:Events describe the state changes of entities. In a document, multiple events are connected by various relations (e.g., Coreference, Temporal, Causal, and Subevent). Therefore, obtaining the connections between events through Event-Event Relation Extraction (ERE) is critical to understand natural language. There are two main problems in the current ERE works: a. Only embeddings of the event triggers are used for event feature representation, ignoring event arguments (e.g., time, place, person, etc.) and their structure within the event. b. The interconnection between relations (e.g., temporal and causal relations usually interact with each other ) is ignored. To solve the above problems, this paper proposes a jointly multiple ERE framework called GraphERE based on Graph-enhanced Event Embeddings. First, we enrich the event embeddings with event argument and structure features by using static AMR graphs and IE graphs; Then, to jointly extract multiple event relations, we use Node Transformer and construct Task-specific Dynamic Event Graphs for each type of relation. Finally, we used a multi-task learning strategy to train the whole framework. Experimental results on the latest MAVEN-ERE dataset validate that GraphERE significantly outperforms existing methods. Further analyses indicate the effectiveness of the graph-enhanced event embeddings and the joint extraction strategy.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [219]
标题:  Multi-mode fault diagnosis datasets of gearbox under variable working  conditions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12521
作者:  Shijin Chen,  Zeyi Liu,  Xiao He,  Dongliang Zou,  Donghua Zhou
备注:  8 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:The gearbox is a critical component of electromechanical systems. The occurrence of multiple faults can significantly impact system accuracy and service life. The vibration signal of the gearbox is an effective indicator of its operational status and fault information. However, gearboxes in real industrial settings often operate under variable working conditions, such as varying speeds and loads. It is a significant and challenging research area to complete the gearbox fault diagnosis procedure under varying operating conditions using vibration signals. This data article presents vibration datasets collected from a gearbox exhibiting various fault degrees of severity and fault types, operating under diverse speed and load conditions. These faults are manually implanted into the gears or bearings through precise machining processes, which include health, missing teeth, wear, pitting, root cracks, and broken teeth. Several kinds of actual compound faults are also encompassed. The development of these datasets facilitates testing the effectiveness and reliability of newly developed fault diagnosis methods.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [220]
标题:  Dynamic Spatial-Temporal Aggregation for Skeleton-Aware Sign Language  Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12519
作者:  Lianyu Hu,  Liqing Gao,  Zekang Liu,  Wei Feng
备注:  
Abstract:Skeleton-aware sign language recognition (SLR) has gained popularity due to its ability to remain unaffected by background information and its lower computational requirements. Current methods utilize spatial graph modules and temporal modules to capture spatial and temporal features, respectively. However, their spatial graph modules are typically built on fixed graph structures such as graph convolutional networks or a single learnable graph, which only partially explore joint relationships. Additionally, a simple temporal convolution kernel is used to capture temporal information, which may not fully capture the complex movement patterns of different signers. To overcome these limitations, we propose a new spatial architecture consisting of two concurrent branches, which build input-sensitive joint relationships and incorporates specific domain knowledge for recognition, respectively. These two branches are followed by an aggregation process to distinguishe important joint connections. We then propose a new temporal module to model multi-scale temporal information to capture complex human dynamics. Our method achieves state-of-the-art accuracy compared to previous skeleton-aware methods on four large-scale SLR benchmarks. Moreover, our method demonstrates superior accuracy compared to RGB-based methods in most cases while requiring much fewer computational resources, bringing better accuracy-computation trade-off. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [221]
标题:  Forward Gradient-Based Frank-Wolfe Optimization for Memory Efficient  Deep Neural Network Training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12511
作者:  M. Rostami,  S. S. Kia
备注:  
Abstract:Training a deep neural network using gradient-based methods necessitates the calculation of gradients at each level. However, using backpropagation or reverse mode differentiation, to calculate the gradients necessities significant memory consumption, rendering backpropagation an inefficient method for computing gradients. This paper focuses on analyzing the performance of the well-known Frank-Wolfe algorithm, a.k.a. conditional gradient algorithm by having access to the forward mode of automatic differentiation to compute gradients. We provide in-depth technical details that show the proposed Algorithm does converge to the optimal solution with a sub-linear rate of convergence by having access to the noisy estimate of the true gradient obtained in the forward mode of automated differentiation, referred to as the Projected Forward Gradient. In contrast, the standard Frank-Wolfe algorithm, when provided with access to the Projected Forward Gradient, fails to converge to the optimal solution. We demonstrate the convergence attributes of our proposed algorithms using a numerical example.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [222]
标题:  Generalized Consistency Trajectory Models for Image Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12510
作者:  Beomsu Kim,  Jaemin Kim,  Jeongsol Kim,  Jong Chul Ye
备注:  
Abstract:Diffusion-based generative models excel in unconditional generation, as well as on applied tasks such as image editing and restoration. The success of diffusion models lies in the iterative nature of diffusion: diffusion breaks down the complex process of mapping noise to data into a sequence of simple denoising tasks. Moreover, we are able to exert fine-grained control over the generation process by injecting guidance terms into each denoising step. However, the iterative process is also computationally intensive, often taking from tens up to thousands of function evaluations. Although consistency trajectory models (CTMs) enable traversal between any time points along the probability flow ODE (PFODE) and score inference with a single function evaluation, CTMs only allow translation from Gaussian noise to data. Thus, this work aims to unlock the full potential of CTMs by proposing generalized CTMs (GCTMs), which translate between arbitrary distributions via ODEs. We discuss the design space of GCTMs and demonstrate their efficacy in various image manipulation tasks such as image-to-image translation, restoration, and editing. Code: \url{this https URL}
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [223]
标题:  Sparse Estimation for XL-MIMO with Unified LoS/NLoS Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12506
作者:  Xu Shi,  Xuehan Wang,  Jingbo Tan,  Jintao Wang
备注:  ICC 2024
Abstract:Extremely large-scale antenna array (ELAA) is promising as one of the key ingredients for the sixth generation (6G) of wireless communications. The electromagnetic propagation of spherical wavefronts introduces an additional distance-dependent dimension beyond conventional beamspace. In this paper, we first present one concise closed-form channel formulation for extremely large-scale multiple-input multiple-output (XL-MIMO). All line-of-sight (LoS) and non-line-of-sight (NLoS) paths, far-field and near-field scenarios, and XL-MIMO and XL-MISO channels are unified under the framework, where additional Vandermonde windowing matrix is exclusively considered for LoS path. Under this framework, we further propose one low-complexity unified LoS/NLoS orthogonal matching pursuit (XL-UOMP) algorithm for XL-MIMO channel estimation. The simulation results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed algorithm on both estimation accuracy and pilot consumption.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [224]
标题:  Semantics, Distortion, and Style Matter: Towards Source-free UDA for  Panoramic Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12505
作者:  Xu Zheng,  Pengyuan Zhou,  Athanasios Vasilakos,  Lin Wang
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:This paper addresses an interesting yet challenging problem-- source-free unsupervised domain adaptation (SFUDA) for pinhole-to-panoramic semantic segmentation--given only a pinhole image-trained model (i.e., source) and unlabeled panoramic images (i.e., target). Tackling this problem is nontrivial due to the semantic mismatches, style discrepancies, and inevitable distortion of panoramic images. To this end, we propose a novel method that utilizes Tangent Projection (TP) as it has less distortion and meanwhile slits the equirectangular projection (ERP) with a fixed FoV to mimic the pinhole images. Both projections are shown effective in extracting knowledge from the source model. However, the distinct projection discrepancies between source and target domains impede the direct knowledge transfer; thus, we propose a panoramic prototype adaptation module (PPAM) to integrate panoramic prototypes from the extracted knowledge for adaptation. We then impose the loss constraints on both predictions and prototypes and propose a cross-dual attention module (CDAM) at the feature level to better align the spatial and channel characteristics across the domains and projections. Both knowledge extraction and transfer processes are synchronously updated to reach the best performance. Extensive experiments on the synthetic and real-world benchmarks, including outdoor and indoor scenarios, demonstrate that our method achieves significantly better performance than prior SFUDA methods for pinhole-to-panoramic adaptation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [225]
标题:  TON-VIO: Online Time Offset Modeling Networks for Robust Temporal  Alignment in High Dynamic Motion VIO
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12504
作者:  Chaoran Xiong,  Guoqing Liu,  Qi Wu,  Songpengcheng Xia,  Tong Hua,  Kehui Ma,  Zhen Sun,  Yan Xiang,  Ling Pei
备注:  
Abstract:Temporal misalignment (time offset) between sensors is common in low cost visual-inertial odometry (VIO) systems. Such temporal misalignment introduces inconsistent constraints for state estimation, leading to a significant positioning drift especially in high dynamic motion scenarios. In this article, we focus on online temporal calibration to reduce the positioning drift caused by the time offset for high dynamic motion VIO. For the time offset observation model, most existing methods rely on accurate state estimation or stable visual tracking. For the prediction model, current methods oversimplify the time offset as a constant value with white Gaussian noise. However, these ideal conditions are seldom satisfied in real high dynamic scenarios, resulting in the poor performance. In this paper, we introduce online time offset modeling networks (TON) to enhance real-time temporal calibration. TON improves the accuracy of time offset observation and prediction modeling. Specifically, for observation modeling, we propose feature velocity observation networks to enhance velocity computation for features in unstable visual tracking conditions. For prediction modeling, we present time offset prediction networks to learn its evolution pattern. To highlight the effectiveness of our method, we integrate the proposed TON into both optimization-based and filter-based VIO systems. Simulation and real-world experiments are conducted to demonstrate the enhanced performance of our approach. Additionally, to contribute to the VIO community, we will open-source the code of our method on: this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [226]
标题:  Securing Large Language Models: Threats, Vulnerabilities and Responsible  Practices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12503
作者:  Sara Abdali,  Richard Anarfi,  CJ Barberan,  Jia He
备注:  
Abstract:Large language models (LLMs) have significantly transformed the landscape of Natural Language Processing (NLP). Their impact extends across a diverse spectrum of tasks, revolutionizing how we approach language understanding and generations. Nevertheless, alongside their remarkable utility, LLMs introduce critical security and risk considerations. These challenges warrant careful examination to ensure responsible deployment and safeguard against potential vulnerabilities. This research paper thoroughly investigates security and privacy concerns related to LLMs from five thematic perspectives: security and privacy concerns, vulnerabilities against adversarial attacks, potential harms caused by misuses of LLMs, mitigation strategies to address these challenges while identifying limitations of current strategies. Lastly, the paper recommends promising avenues for future research to enhance the security and risk management of LLMs.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [227]
标题:  Under-actuated Robotic Gripper with Multiple Grasping Modes Inspired by  Human Finger
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12502
作者:  Jihao Li,  Tingbo Liao,  Hassen Nigatu,  Haotian Guo,  Guodong Lu,  Huixu Dong
备注:  8 pages
Abstract:Under-actuated robot grippers as a pervasive tool of robots have become a considerable research focus. Despite their simplicity of mechanical design and control strategy, they suffer from poor versatility and weak adaptability, making widespread applications limited. To better relieve relevant research gaps, we present a novel 3-finger linkage-based gripper that realizes retractable and reconfigurable multi-mode grasps driven by a single motor. Firstly, inspired by the changes that occurred in the contact surface with a human finger moving, we artfully design a slider-slide rail mechanism as the phalanx to achieve retraction of each finger, allowing for better performance in the enveloping grasping mode. Secondly, a reconfigurable structure is constructed to broaden the grasping range of objects' dimensions for the proposed gripper. By adjusting the configuration and gesture of each finger, the gripper can achieve five grasping modes. Thirdly, the proposed gripper is just actuated by a single motor, yet it can be capable of grasping and reconfiguring simultaneously. Finally, various experiments on grasps of slender, thin, and large-volume objects are implemented to evaluate the performance of the proposed gripper in practical scenarios, which demonstrates the excellent grasping capabilities of the gripper.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [228]
标题:  Multilevel Markov Chain Monte Carlo for Bayesian inverse problems for  Navier Stokes equation with Lagrangian Observations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12501
作者:  Juntao Yang
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we extend our work to the Bayesian inverse problems for inferring unknown forcing and initial condition of the forward Navier-Stokes equation coupled with tracer equation with noisy Lagrangian observation on the positions of the tracers. We consider the Navier-Stokes equations in the two dimensional periodic torus with a tracer equation which is a simple ordinary differential equation. We developed rigorously the theory for the case of the uniform prior where the forcing and the initial condition depend linearly on a countable set of random variables which are uniformly distributed in a compact interval. Numerical experiment using the MLMCMC method produces approximations for posterior expectation of quantities of interest which are in agreement with the theoretical optimal convergence rate established.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [229]
标题:  A Large Collection of Model-generated Contradictory Responses for  Consistency-aware Dialogue Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12500
作者:  Shiki Sato,  Reina Akama,  Jun Suzuki,  Kentaro Inui
备注:  16 pages
Abstract:Mitigating the generation of contradictory responses poses a substantial challenge in dialogue response generation. The quality and quantity of available contradictory response data play a vital role in suppressing these contradictions, offering two significant benefits. First, having access to large contradiction data enables a comprehensive examination of their characteristics. Second, data-driven methods to mitigate contradictions may be enhanced with large-scale contradiction data for training. Nevertheless, no attempt has been made to build an extensive collection of model-generated contradictory responses. In this paper, we build a large dataset of response generation models' contradictions for the first time. Then, we acquire valuable insights into the characteristics of model-generated contradictions through an extensive analysis of the collected responses. Lastly, we also demonstrate how this dataset substantially enhances the performance of data-driven contradiction suppression methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [230]
标题:  Listwise Generative Retrieval Models via a Sequential Learning Process
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12499
作者:  Yubao Tang,  Ruqing Zhang,  Jiafeng Guo,  Maarten de Rijke,  Wei Chen,  Xueqi Cheng
备注:  Accepted by ACM Transactions on Information Systems
Abstract:Recently, a novel generative retrieval (GR) paradigm has been proposed, where a single sequence-to-sequence model is learned to directly generate a list of relevant document identifiers (docids) given a query. Existing GR models commonly employ maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) for optimization: this involves maximizing the likelihood of a single relevant docid given an input query, with the assumption that the likelihood for each docid is independent of the other docids in the list. We refer to these models as the pointwise approach in this paper. While the pointwise approach has been shown to be effective in the context of GR, it is considered sub-optimal due to its disregard for the fundamental principle that ranking involves making predictions about lists. In this paper, we address this limitation by introducing an alternative listwise approach, which empowers the GR model to optimize the relevance at the docid list level. Specifically, we view the generation of a ranked docid list as a sequence learning process: at each step we learn a subset of parameters that maximizes the corresponding generation likelihood of the $i$-th docid given the (preceding) top $i-1$ docids. To formalize the sequence learning process, we design a positional conditional probability for GR. To alleviate the potential impact of beam search on the generation quality during inference, we perform relevance calibration on the generation likelihood of model-generated docids according to relevance grades. We conduct extensive experiments on representative binary and multi-graded relevance datasets. Our empirical results demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art GR baselines in terms of retrieval performance.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [231]
标题:  WMMSE-Based Rate Maximization for RIS-Assisted MU-MIMO Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12498
作者:  Hyuckjin Choi,  A. Lee Swindlehurst,  Junil Choi
备注:  
Abstract:Reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS) technology, given its ability to favorably modify wireless communication environments, will play a pivotal role in the evolution of future communication systems. This paper proposes rate maximization techniques for both single-user and multiuser MIMO systems, based on the well-known weighted minimum mean square error (WMMSE) criterion. Using a suitable weight matrix, the WMMSE algorithm tackles an equivalent weighted mean square error (WMSE) minimization problem to achieve the sum-rate maximization. By considering a more practical RIS system model that employs a tensor-based representation enforced by the electromagnetic behavior exhibited by the RIS panel, we detail both the sum-rate maximizing and WMSE minimizing strategies for RIS phase shift optimization by deriving the closed-form gradient of the WMSE and the sum-rate with respect to the RIS phase shift vector. Our simulations reveal that the proposed rate maximization technique, rooted in the WMMSE algorithm, exhibits superior performance when compared to other benchmarks.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [232]
标题:  Task-Customized Mixture of Adapters for General Image Fusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12494
作者:  Pengfei Zhu,  Yang Sun,  Bing Cao,  Qinghua Hu
备注:  19 pages, 17 figures, CVPR 2024
Abstract:General image fusion aims at integrating important information from multi-source images. However, due to the significant cross-task gap, the respective fusion mechanism varies considerably in practice, resulting in limited performance across subtasks. To handle this problem, we propose a novel task-customized mixture of adapters (TC-MoA) for general image fusion, adaptively prompting various fusion tasks in a unified model. We borrow the insight from the mixture of experts (MoE), taking the experts as efficient tuning adapters to prompt a pre-trained foundation model. These adapters are shared across different tasks and constrained by mutual information regularization, ensuring compatibility with different tasks while complementarity for multi-source images. The task-specific routing networks customize these adapters to extract task-specific information from different sources with dynamic dominant intensity, performing adaptive visual feature prompt fusion. Notably, our TC-MoA controls the dominant intensity bias for different fusion tasks, successfully unifying multiple fusion tasks in a single model. Extensive experiments show that TC-MoA outperforms the competing approaches in learning commonalities while retaining compatibility for general image fusion (multi-modal, multi-exposure, and multi-focus), and also demonstrating striking controllability on more generalization experiments. The code is available at this https URL .
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [233]
标题:  A Trainable Feature Extractor Module for Deep Neural Networks and  Scanpath Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12493
作者:  Wolfgang Fuhl
备注:  
Abstract:Scanpath classification is an area in eye tracking research with possible applications in medicine, manufacturing as well as training systems for students in various domains. In this paper we propose a trainable feature extraction module for deep neural networks. The purpose of this module is to transform a scanpath into a feature vector which is directly useable for the deep neural network architecture. Based on the backpropagated error of the deep neural network, the feature extraction module adapts its parameters to improve the classification performance. Therefore, our feature extraction module is jointly trainable with the deep neural network. The motivation to this feature extraction module is based on classical histogram-based approaches which usually compute distributions over a scanpath. We evaluated our module on three public datasets and compared it to the state of the art approaches.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [234]
标题:  Genetically programmable optical random neural networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12490
作者:  Bora Çarpınlıoğlu,  Bahrem Serhat Daniş,  Uğur Teğin
备注:  Manuscript: 11 pages, 5 Figures. Supplementary material: 8 pages, 6 Figures, 2 Tables
Abstract:Today, machine learning tools, particularly artificial neural networks, have become crucial for diverse applications. However, current digital computing tools to train and deploy artificial neural networks often struggle with massive data sizes and high power consumptions. Optical computing provides inherent parallelism and perform fundamental operations with passive optical components. However, most of the optical computing platforms suffer from relatively low accuracies for machine learning tasks due to fixed connections while avoiding complex and sensitive techniques. Here, we demonstrate a genetically programmable yet simple optical neural network to achieve high performances with optical random projection. By genetically programming the orientation of the scattering medium which acts as a random projection kernel and only using 1% of the search space, our novel technique finds an optimum kernel and improves its initial test accuracies 7-22% for various machine learning tasks. Our optical computing method presents a promising approach to achieve high performance in optical neural networks with a simple and scalable design.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Optics (physics.optics)

**编号**: [235]
标题:  DetToolChain: A New Prompting Paradigm to Unleash Detection Ability of  MLLM
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12488
作者:  Yixuan Wu,  Yizhou Wang,  Shixiang Tang,  Wenhao Wu,  Tong He,  Wanli Ouyang,  Jian Wu,  Philip Torr
备注:  
Abstract:We present DetToolChain, a novel prompting paradigm, to unleash the zero-shot object detection ability of multimodal large language models (MLLMs), such as GPT-4V and Gemini. Our approach consists of a detection prompting toolkit inspired by high-precision detection priors and a new Chain-of-Thought to implement these prompts. Specifically, the prompts in the toolkit are designed to guide the MLLM to focus on regional information (e.g., zooming in), read coordinates according to measure standards (e.g., overlaying rulers and compasses), and infer from the contextual information (e.g., overlaying scene graphs). Building upon these tools, the new detection chain-of-thought can automatically decompose the task into simple subtasks, diagnose the predictions, and plan for progressive box refinements. The effectiveness of our framework is demonstrated across a spectrum of detection tasks, especially hard cases. Compared to existing state-of-the-art methods, GPT-4V with our DetToolChain improves state-of-the-art object detectors by +21.5% AP50 on MS COCO Novel class set for open-vocabulary detection, +24.23% Acc on RefCOCO val set for zero-shot referring expression comprehension, +14.5% AP on D-cube describe object detection FULL setting.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [236]
标题:  Unveiling Four Key Factors for Tire Force Control Allocation in  4WID-4WIS Electric Vehicles at Handling Limits
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12487
作者:  Ao Lu,  Runfeng Li,  Yunchang Yu,  Ziwang Lu,  Guangyu Tian
备注:  
Abstract:The four-wheel independent drive and four-wheel independent steering (4WID-4WIS) configurations enhance control flexibility and dynamic performance potential for more integrated electric vehicles. This paper comprehensively analyzes the impacts of four key factors on tire force control allocation: vertical load estimation, actuator dynamic characteristics, tire force constraints, and wheel steering precision at handling limits. The study demonstrates that precise vertical load estimation enhances lateral force allocation accuracy. Additionally, the self-compensating effect of lateral tire forces minimizes the impact of small deviations in vertical load estimation on tire force control allocation. A novel control allocation method considering actuator dynamics is introduced, effectively improving yaw rate response and reducing tracking errors. Considering tire-road adhesion and actuator rate constraints, an innovative method to calculate the real-time attainable tire force volume is proposed based on the tire slip ratio and slip angle. Feedforward control with bump steer compensation is implemented to improve wheel steering precision and lateral tire force control accuracy. Matlab/Simulink and Carsim co-simulation results emphasize the importance of these key factors' individual impacts and combined effects. This analysis offers valuable insights for developing advanced tire force control allocation strategies in 4WID-4WIS electric vehicles.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [237]
标题:  NTK-Guided Few-Shot Class Incremental Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12486
作者:  Jingren Liu,  Zhong Ji,  Yanwei Pang,  YunLong Yu
备注:  
Abstract:While anti-amnesia FSCIL learners often excel in incremental sessions, they tend to prioritize mitigating knowledge attrition over harnessing the model's potential for knowledge acquisition. In this paper, we delve into the foundations of model generalization in FSCIL through the lens of the Neural Tangent Kernel (NTK). Our primary design focus revolves around ensuring optimal NTK convergence and NTK-related generalization error, serving as the theoretical bedrock for exceptional generalization. To attain globally optimal NTK convergence, we employ a meta-learning mechanism grounded in mathematical principles to guide the optimization process within an expanded network. Furthermore, to reduce the NTK-related generalization error, we commence from the foundational level, optimizing the relevant factors constituting its generalization loss. Specifically, we initiate self-supervised pre-training on the base session to shape the initial network weights. Then they are carefully refined through curricular alignment, followed by the application of dual NTK regularization tailored specifically for both convolutional and linear layers. Through the combined effects of these measures, our network acquires robust NTK properties, significantly enhancing its foundational generalization. On popular FSCIL benchmark datasets, our NTK-FSCIL surpasses contemporary state-of-the-art approaches, elevating end-session accuracy by 2.9% to 8.7%.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [238]
标题:  A Hybrid Transformer-Sequencer approach for Age and Gender  classification from in-wild facial images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12483
作者:  Aakash Singh,  Vivek Kumar Singh
备注:  22 pages
Abstract:The advancements in computer vision and image processing techniques have led to emergence of new application in the domain of visual surveillance, targeted advertisement, content-based searching, and human-computer interaction etc. Out of the various techniques in computer vision, face analysis, in particular, has gained much attention. Several previous studies have tried to explore different applications of facial feature processing for a variety of tasks, including age and gender classification. However, despite several previous studies having explored the problem, the age and gender classification of in-wild human faces is still far from the achieving the desired levels of accuracy required for real-world applications. This paper, therefore, attempts to bridge this gap by proposing a hybrid model that combines self-attention and BiLSTM approaches for age and gender classification problems. The proposed models performance is compared with several state-of-the-art model proposed so far. An improvement of approximately 10percent and 6percent over the state-of-the-art implementations for age and gender classification, respectively, are noted for the proposed model. The proposed model is thus found to achieve superior performance and is found to provide a more generalized learning. The model can, therefore, be applied as a core classification component in various image processing and computer vision problems.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [239]
标题:  Embodied LLM Agents Learn to Cooperate in Organized Teams
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12482
作者:  Xudong Guo,  Kaixuan Huang,  Jiale Liu,  Wenhui Fan,  Natalia Vélez,  Qingyun Wu,  Huazheng Wang,  Thomas L. Griffiths,  Mengdi Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as integral tools for reasoning, planning, and decision-making, drawing upon their extensive world knowledge and proficiency in language-related tasks. LLMs thus hold tremendous potential for natural language interaction within multi-agent systems to foster cooperation. However, LLM agents tend to over-report and comply with any instruction, which may result in information redundancy and confusion in multi-agent cooperation. Inspired by human organizations, this paper introduces a framework that imposes prompt-based organization structures on LLM agents to mitigate these problems. Through a series of experiments with embodied LLM agents and human-agent collaboration, our results highlight the impact of designated leadership on team efficiency, shedding light on the leadership qualities displayed by LLM agents and their spontaneous cooperative behaviors. Further, we harness the potential of LLMs to propose enhanced organizational prompts, via a Criticize-Reflect process, resulting in novel organization structures that reduce communication costs and enhance team efficiency.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [240]
标题:  TT-BLIP: Enhancing Fake News Detection Using BLIP and Tri-Transformer
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12481
作者:  Eunjee Choi,  Jong-Kook Kim
备注:  8 pages, submitted to conference
Abstract:Detecting fake news has received a lot of attention. Many previous methods concatenate independently encoded unimodal data, ignoring the benefits of integrated multimodal information. Also, the absence of specialized feature extraction for text and images further limits these methods. This paper introduces an end-to-end model called TT-BLIP that applies the bootstrapping language-image pretraining for unified vision-language understanding and generation (BLIP) for three types of information: BERT and BLIP\textsubscript{Txt} for text, ResNet and BLIP\textsubscript{Img} for images, and bidirectional BLIP encoders for multimodal information. The Multimodal Tri-Transformer fuses tri-modal features using three types of multi-head attention mechanisms, ensuring integrated modalities for enhanced representations and improved multimodal data analysis. The experiments are performed using two fake news datasets, Weibo and Gossipcop. The results indicate TT-BLIP outperforms the state-of-the-art models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [241]
标题:  Real-time Speech Extraction Using Spatially Regularized Independent  Low-rank Matrix Analysis and Rank-constrained Spatial Covariance Matrix  Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12477
作者:  Yuto Ishikawa,  Kohei Konaka,  Tomohiko Nakamura,  Norihiro Takamune,  Hiroshi Saruwatari
备注:  5 pages, 3 figures, accepted at HSCMA 2024
Abstract:Real-time speech extraction is an important challenge with various applications such as speech recognition in a human-like avatar/robot. In this paper, we propose the real-time extension of a speech extraction method based on independent low-rank matrix analysis (ILRMA) and rank-constrained spatial covariance matrix estimation (RCSCME). The RCSCME-based method is a multichannel blind speech extraction method that demonstrates superior speech extraction performance in diffuse noise environments. To improve the performance, we introduce spatial regularization into the ILRMA part of the RCSCME-based speech extraction and design two regularizers. Speech extraction experiments demonstrated that the proposed methods can function in real time and the designed regularizers improve the speech extraction performance.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [242]
标题:  FairSIN: Achieving Fairness in Graph Neural Networks through Sensitive  Information Neutralization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12474
作者:  Cheng Yang,  Jixi Liu,  Yunhe Yan,  Chuan Shi
备注:  
Abstract:Despite the remarkable success of graph neural networks (GNNs) in modeling graph-structured data, like other machine learning models, GNNs are also susceptible to making biased predictions based on sensitive attributes, such as race and gender. For fairness consideration, recent state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods propose to filter out sensitive information from inputs or representations, e.g., edge dropping or feature masking. However, we argue that such filtering-based strategies may also filter out some non-sensitive feature information, leading to a sub-optimal trade-off between predictive performance and fairness. To address this issue, we unveil an innovative neutralization-based paradigm, where additional Fairness-facilitating Features (F3) are incorporated into node features or representations before message passing. The F3 are expected to statistically neutralize the sensitive bias in node representations and provide additional nonsensitive information. We also provide theoretical explanations for our rationale, concluding that F3 can be realized by emphasizing the features of each node's heterogeneous neighbors (neighbors with different sensitive attributes). We name our method as FairSIN, and present three implementation variants from both data-centric and model-centric perspectives. Experimental results on five benchmark datasets with three different GNN backbones show that FairSIN significantly improves fairness metrics while maintaining high prediction accuracies.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [243]
标题:  PostoMETRO: Pose Token Enhanced Mesh Transformer for Robust 3D Human  Mesh Recovery
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12473
作者:  Wendi Yang,  Zihang Jiang,  Shang Zhao,  S. Kevin Zhou
备注:  
Abstract:With the recent advancements in single-image-based human mesh recovery, there is a growing interest in enhancing its performance in certain extreme scenarios, such as occlusion, while maintaining overall model accuracy. Although obtaining accurately annotated 3D human poses under occlusion is challenging, there is still a wealth of rich and precise 2D pose annotations that can be leveraged. However, existing works mostly focus on directly leveraging 2D pose coordinates to estimate 3D pose and mesh. In this paper, we present PostoMETRO($\textbf{Pos}$e $\textbf{to}$ken enhanced $\textbf{ME}$sh $\textbf{TR}$ansf$\textbf{O}$rmer), which integrates occlusion-resilient 2D pose representation into transformers in a token-wise manner. Utilizing a specialized pose tokenizer, we efficiently condense 2D pose data to a compact sequence of pose tokens and feed them to the transformer together with the image tokens. This process not only ensures a rich depiction of texture from the image but also fosters a robust integration of pose and image information. Subsequently, these combined tokens are queried by vertex and joint tokens to decode 3D coordinates of mesh vertices and human joints. Facilitated by the robust pose token representation and the effective combination, we are able to produce more precise 3D coordinates, even under extreme scenarios like occlusion. Experiments on both standard and occlusion-specific benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of PostoMETRO. Qualitative results further illustrate the clarity of how 2D pose can help 3D reconstruction. Code will be made available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [244]
标题:  Theoretical Modeling and Bio-inspired Trajectory Optimization of A  Multiple-locomotion Origami Robot
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12471
作者:  Keqi Zhu,  Haotian Guo,  Wei Yu,  Hassen Nigatu,  Tong Li,  Huixu Dong
备注:  8 pages
Abstract:Recent research on mobile robots has focused on increasing their adaptability to unpredictable and unstructured environments using soft materials and structures. However, the determination of key design parameters and control over these compliant robots are predominantly iterated through experiments, lacking a solid theoretical foundation. To improve their efficiency, this paper aims to provide mathematics modeling over two locomotion, crawling and swimming. Specifically, a dynamic model is first devised to reveal the influence of the contact surfaces' frictional coefficients on displacements in different motion phases. Besides, a swimming kinematics model is provided using coordinate transformation, based on which, we further develop an algorithm that systematically plans human-like swimming gaits, with maximum thrust obtained. The proposed algorithm is highly generalizable and has the potential to be applied in other soft robots with multiple joints. Simulation experiments have been conducted to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed modeling.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [245]
标题:  SC-Diff: 3D Shape Completion with Latent Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12470
作者:  Juan D. Galvis,  Xingxing Zuo,  Simon Schaefer,  Stefan Leutengger
备注:  22 pages
Abstract:This paper introduces a 3D shape completion approach using a 3D latent diffusion model optimized for completing shapes, represented as Truncated Signed Distance Functions (TSDFs), from partial 3D scans. Our method combines image-based conditioning through cross-attention and spatial conditioning through the integration of 3D features from captured partial scans. This dual guidance enables high-fidelity, realistic shape completions at superior resolutions. At the core of our approach is the compression of 3D data into a low-dimensional latent space using an auto-encoder inspired by 2D latent diffusion models. This compression facilitates the processing of higher-resolution shapes and allows us to apply our model across multiple object classes, a significant improvement over other existing diffusion-based shape completion methods, which often require a separate diffusion model for each class. We validated our approach against two common benchmarks in the field of shape completion, demonstrating competitive performance in terms of accuracy and realism and performing on par with state-of-the-art methods despite operating at a higher resolution with a single model for all object classes. We present a comprehensive evaluation of our model, showcasing its efficacy in handling diverse shape completion challenges, even on unseen object classes. The code will be released upon acceptance.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [246]
标题:  When Do "More Contexts" Help with Sarcasm Recognition?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12469
作者:  Ojas Nimase,  Sanghyun Hong
备注:  Accepted to LREC-COLING 2024 [Short]
Abstract:Sarcasm recognition is challenging because it needs an understanding of the true intention, which is opposite to or different from the literal meaning of the words. Prior work has addressed this challenge by developing a series of methods that provide richer $contexts$, e.g., sentiment or cultural nuances, to models. While shown to be effective individually, no study has systematically evaluated their collective effectiveness. As a result, it remains unclear to what extent additional contexts can improve sarcasm recognition. In this work, we explore the improvements that existing methods bring by incorporating more contexts into a model. To this end, we develop a framework where we can integrate multiple contextual cues and test different approaches. In evaluation with four approaches on three sarcasm recognition benchmarks, we achieve existing state-of-the-art performances and also demonstrate the benefits of sequentially adding more contexts. We also identify inherent drawbacks of using more contexts, highlighting that in the pursuit of even better results, the model may need to adopt societal biases.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [247]
标题:  CrossTune: Black-Box Few-Shot Classification with Label Enhancement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12468
作者:  Danqing Luo,  Chen Zhang,  Yan Zhang,  Haizhou Li
备注:  Accepted by LREC-Coling 2024
Abstract:Training or finetuning large-scale language models (LLMs) requires substantial computation resources, motivating recent efforts to explore parameter-efficient adaptation to downstream tasks. One approach is to treat these models as black boxes and use forward passes (Inference APIs) to interact with them. Current research focuses on adapting these black-box models to downstream tasks using gradient-free prompt optimization, but this often involves an expensive process of searching task-specific prompts. Therefore, we are motivated to study black-box language model adaptation without prompt search. Specifically, we introduce a label-enhanced cross-attention network called CrossTune, which models the semantic relatedness between the input text sequence and task-specific label descriptions. Its effectiveness is examined in the context of few-shot text classification. To improve the generalization of CrossTune, we utilize ChatGPT to generate additional training data through in-context learning. A switch mechanism is implemented to exclude low-quality ChatGPT-generated data. Through extensive experiments on seven benchmark text classification datasets, we demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms the previous state-of-the-art gradient-free black-box tuning method by 5.7% on average. Even without using ChatGPT-augmented data, CrossTune performs better or comparably than previous black-box tuning methods, suggesting the effectiveness of our approach.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [248]
标题:  Few-shot Object Localization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12466
作者:  Yunhan Ren,  Bo Li,  Chengyang Zhang,  Yong Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Existing few-shot object counting tasks primarily focus on quantifying the number of objects in an image, neglecting precise positional information. To bridge this research gap, this paper introduces the novel task of Few-Shot Object Localization (FSOL), which aims to provide accurate object positional information. This task achieves generalized object localization by leveraging a small number of labeled support samples to query the positional information of objects within corresponding images. To advance this research field, we propose an innovative high-performance baseline model. Our model integrates a dual-path feature augmentation module to enhance shape association and gradient differences between supports and query images, alongside a self-query module designed to explore the association between feature maps and query images. Experimental results demonstrate a significant performance improvement of our approach in the FSOL task, establishing an efficient benchmark for further research.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [249]
标题:  Diagrammatic Instructions to Specify Spatial Objectives and Constraints  with Applications to Mobile Base Placement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12465
作者:  Qilin Sun,  Weiming Zhi,  Tianyi Zhang,  Matthew Johnson-Roberson
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces Spatial Diagrammatic Instructions (SDIs), an approach for human operators to specify objectives and constraints that are related to spatial regions in the working environment. Human operators are enabled to sketch out regions directly on camera images that correspond to the objectives and constraints. These sketches are projected to 3D spatial coordinates, and continuous Spatial Instruction Maps (SIMs) are learned upon them. These maps can then be integrated into optimization problems for tasks of robots. In particular, we demonstrate how Spatial Diagrammatic Instructions can be applied to solve the Base Placement Problem of mobile manipulators, which concerns the best place to put the manipulator to facilitate a certain task. Human operators can specify, via sketch, spatial regions of interest for a manipulation task and permissible regions for the mobile manipulator to be at. Then, an optimization problem that maximizes the manipulator's reachability, or coverage, over the designated regions of interest while remaining in the permissible regions is solved. We provide extensive empirical evaluations, and show that our formulation of Spatial Instruction Maps provides accurate representations of user-specified diagrammatic instructions. Furthermore, we demonstrate that our diagrammatic approach to the Mobile Base Placement Problem enables higher quality solutions and faster run-time.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [250]
标题:  Reinforcement learning based local path planning for mobile robot
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12463
作者:  Mehmet Gok,  Mehmet Tekerek,  Hamza Aydemir
备注:  5 Pages, 10 figures, Presented in; Interdisciplinary Conference on Mechanics, Computers and Electrics ANKARA/TURKEY 27-28 November 2021
Abstract:Different methods are used for a mobile robot to go to a specific target location. These methods work in different ways for online and offline scenarios. In the offline scenario, an environment map is created once, and fixed path planning is made on this map to reach the target. Path planning algorithms such as A* and RRT (Rapidly-Exploring Random Tree) are the examples of offline methods. The most obvious situation here is the need to re-plan the path for changing conditions of the loaded map. On the other hand, in the online scenario, the robot moves dynamically to a given target without using a map by using the perceived data coming from the sensors. Approaches such as SFM (Social Force Model) are used in online systems. However, these methods suffer from the requirement of a lot of dynamic sensing data. Thus, it can be said that the need for re-planning and mapping in offline systems and various system design requirements in online systems are the subjects that focus on autonomous mobile robot research. Recently, deep neural network powered Q-Learning methods are used as an emerging solution to the aforementioned problems in mobile robot navigation. In this study, machine learning algorithms with deep Q-Learning (DQN) and Deep DQN architectures, are evaluated for the solution of the problems presented above to realize path planning of an autonomous mobile robot to avoid obstacles.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [251]
标题:  Topological Representations of Heterogeneous Learning Dynamics of  Recurrent Spiking Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12462
作者:  Biswadeep Chakraborty,  Saibal Mukhopadhyay
备注:  Accepted in IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence (IEEE WCCI) 2024
Abstract:Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) have become an essential paradigm in neuroscience and artificial intelligence, providing brain-inspired computation. Recent advances in literature have studied the network representations of deep neural networks. However, there has been little work that studies representations learned by SNNs, especially using unsupervised local learning methods like spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP). Recent work by \cite{barannikov2021representation} has introduced a novel method to compare topological mappings of learned representations called Representation Topology Divergence (RTD). Though useful, this method is engineered particularly for feedforward deep neural networks and cannot be used for recurrent networks like Recurrent SNNs (RSNNs). This paper introduces a novel methodology to use RTD to measure the difference between distributed representations of RSNN models with different learning methods. We propose a novel reformulation of RSNNs using feedforward autoencoder networks with skip connections to help us compute the RTD for recurrent networks. Thus, we investigate the learning capabilities of RSNN trained using STDP and the role of heterogeneity in the synaptic dynamics in learning such representations. We demonstrate that heterogeneous STDP in RSNNs yield distinct representations than their homogeneous and surrogate gradient-based supervised learning counterparts. Our results provide insights into the potential of heterogeneous SNN models, aiding the development of more efficient and biologically plausible hybrid artificial intelligence systems.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [252]
标题:  Stochastic variance reduced gradient method for linear ill-posed inverse  problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12460
作者:  Qinian Jin,  Liuhong Chen
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper we apply the stochastic variance reduced gradient (SVRG) method, which is a popular variance reduction method in optimization for accelerating the stochastic gradient method, to solve large scale linear ill-posed systems in Hilbert spaces. Under {\it a priori} choices of stopping indices, we derive a convergence rate result when the sought solution satisfies a benchmark source condition and establish a convergence result without using any source condition. To terminate the method in an {\it a posteriori} manner, we consider the discrepancy principle and show that it terminates the method in finite many iteration steps almost surely. Various numerical results are reported to test the performance of the method.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [253]
标题:  Non-negative Contrastive Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12459
作者:  Yifei Wang,  Qi Zhang,  Yaoyu Guo,  Yisen Wang
备注:  22 pages. Accepted by ICLR 2024
Abstract:Deep representations have shown promising performance when transferred to downstream tasks in a black-box manner. Yet, their inherent lack of interpretability remains a significant challenge, as these features are often opaque to human understanding. In this paper, we propose Non-negative Contrastive Learning (NCL), a renaissance of Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) aimed at deriving interpretable features. The power of NCL lies in its enforcement of non-negativity constraints on features, reminiscent of NMF's capability to extract features that align closely with sample clusters. NCL not only aligns mathematically well with an NMF objective but also preserves NMF's interpretability attributes, resulting in a more sparse and disentangled representation compared to standard contrastive learning (CL). Theoretically, we establish guarantees on the identifiability and downstream generalization of NCL. Empirically, we show that these advantages enable NCL to outperform CL significantly on feature disentanglement, feature selection, as well as downstream classification tasks. At last, we show that NCL can be easily extended to other learning scenarios and benefit supervised learning as well. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [254]
标题:  Privacy-Preserving Face Recognition Using Trainable Feature Subtraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12457
作者:  Yuxi Mi,  Zhizhou Zhong,  Yuge Huang,  Jiazhen Ji,  Jianqing Xu,  Jun Wang,  Shaoming Wang,  Shouhong Ding,  Shuigeng Zhou
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:The widespread adoption of face recognition has led to increasing privacy concerns, as unauthorized access to face images can expose sensitive personal information. This paper explores face image protection against viewing and recovery attacks. Inspired by image compression, we propose creating a visually uninformative face image through feature subtraction between an original face and its model-produced regeneration. Recognizable identity features within the image are encouraged by co-training a recognition model on its high-dimensional feature representation. To enhance privacy, the high-dimensional representation is crafted through random channel shuffling, resulting in randomized recognizable images devoid of attacker-leverageable texture details. We distill our methodologies into a novel privacy-preserving face recognition method, MinusFace. Experiments demonstrate its high recognition accuracy and effective privacy protection. Its code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [255]
标题:  CLIP-VIS: Adapting CLIP for Open-Vocabulary Video Instance Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12455
作者:  Wenqi Zhu,  Jiale Cao,  Jin Xie,  Shuangming Yang,  Yanwei Pang
备注:  
Abstract:Open-vocabulary video instance segmentation strives to segment and track instances belonging to an open set of categories in a video. The vision-language model Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has shown strong zero-shot classification ability in image-level open-vocabulary task. In this paper, we propose a simple encoder-decoder network, called CLIP-VIS, to adapt CLIP for open-vocabulary video instance segmentation. Our CLIP-VIS adopts frozen CLIP image encoder and introduces three modules, including class-agnostic mask generation, temporal topK-enhanced matching, and weighted open-vocabulary classification. Given a set of initial queries, class-agnostic mask generation employs a transformer decoder to predict query masks and corresponding object scores and mask IoU scores. Then, temporal topK-enhanced matching performs query matching across frames by using K mostly matched frames. Finally, weighted open-vocabulary classification first generates query visual features with mask pooling, and second performs weighted classification using object scores and mask IoU scores. Our CLIP-VIS does not require the annotations of instance categories and identities. The experiments are performed on various video instance segmentation datasets, which demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method, especially on novel categories. When using ConvNeXt-B as backbone, our CLIP-VIS achieves the AP and APn scores of 32.1% and 40.3% on validation set of LV-VIS dataset, which outperforms OV2Seg by 11.0% and 24.0% respectively. We will release the source code and models at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [256]
标题:  On the Salient Limitations of `On the Salient Limitations of the Methods  of Assembly Theory and their Classification of Molecular Biosignatures'
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12452
作者:  Leroy Cronin
备注:  6 pages
Abstract:Assembly Theory (AT) is a theory that explains how to determine if a complex object is the product of evolution. Here we explain why attempts to compare AT to compression algorithms, ref 1, does not help identify if the object is the product of selection or not. Specifically, we show why aims to perform benchmark comparisons of different compression schemes to compare the performance of Molecular Assembly Indices against standard compression schemes in determining living vs. non-living samples fails to classify the data correctly. In their approach, Uthamacumaran et al., ref 1, compress data from Marshall et al.2 describing the experimental basis for assembly theory and evaluate the difference in the resulting distributions of data. After several computational experiments Uthamacumaran et al., ref 1, conclude that other compression techniques obtain better results in the problem of detecting life and non-life that of assembly pathways. Here we explain why the approach presented by Uthamacumaran et al.1 appears to be lacking, and why it is not to reproduce their analysis with the information given.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)

**编号**: [257]
标题:  INSIGHT: End-to-End Neuro-Symbolic Visual Reinforcement Learning with  Language Explanations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12451
作者:  Lirui Luo,  Guoxi Zhang,  Hongming Xu,  Yaodong Yang,  Cong Fang,  Qing Li
备注:  
Abstract:Neuro-symbolic reinforcement learning (NS-RL) has emerged as a promising paradigm for explainable decision-making, characterized by the interpretability of symbolic policies. For tasks with visual observations, NS-RL entails structured representations for states, but previous algorithms are unable to refine the structured states with reward signals due to a lack of efficiency. Accessibility is also an issue, as extensive domain knowledge is required to interpret current symbolic policies. In this paper, we present a framework that is capable of learning structured states and symbolic policies simultaneously, whose key idea is to overcome the efficiency bottleneck by distilling vision foundation models into a scalable perception module. Moreover, we design a pipeline that uses large language models to generate concise and readable language explanations for policies and decisions. In experiments on nine Atari tasks, our approach demonstrates substantial performance gains over existing NSRL methods. We also showcase explanations for policies and decisions.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [258]
标题:  Intention Action Anticipation Model with Guide-Feedback Loop Mechanism
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12450
作者:  Zongnan Ma,  Fuchun Zhang,  Zhixiong Nan,  Yao Ge
备注:  
Abstract:Anticipating human intention from videos has broad applications, such as automatic driving, robot assistive technology, and virtual reality. This study addresses the problem of intention action anticipation using egocentric video sequences to estimate actions that indicate human intention. We propose a Hierarchical Complete-Recent (HCR) information fusion model that makes full use of the features of the entire video sequence (i.e., complete features) and the features of the video tail sequence (i.e., recent features). The HCR model has two primary mechanisms. The Guide-Feedback Loop (GFL) mechanism is proposed to model the relation between one recent feature and one complete feature. Based on GFL, the MultiComplete-Recent Feature Aggregation (MCRFA) module is proposed to model the relation of one recent feature with multiscale complete features. Based on GFL and MCRFA, the HCR model can hierarchically explore the rich interrelationships between multiscale complete features and multiscale recent features. Through comparative and ablation experiments, we validate the effectiveness of our model on two well-known public datasets: EPIC-Kitchens and EGTEA Gaze+.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [259]
标题:  Multi-Object RANSAC: Efficient Plane Clustering Method in a Clutter
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12449
作者:  Seunghyeon Lim,  Youngjae Yoo,  Jun Ki Lee,  Byoung-Tak Zhang
备注:  7 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:In this paper, we propose a novel method for plane clustering specialized in cluttered scenes using an RGB-D camera and validate its effectiveness through robot grasping experiments. Unlike existing methods, which focus on large-scale indoor structures, our approach -- Multi-Object RANSAC emphasizes cluttered environments that contain a wide range of objects with different scales. It enhances plane segmentation by generating subplanes in Deep Plane Clustering (DPC) module, which are then merged with the final planes by post-processing. DPC rearranges the point cloud by voting layers to make subplane clusters, trained in a self-supervised manner using pseudo-labels generated from RANSAC. Multi-Object RANSAC demonstrates superior plane instance segmentation performances over other recent RANSAC applications. We conducted an experiment on robot suction-based grasping, comparing our method with vision-based grasping network and RANSAC applications. The results from this real-world scenario showed its remarkable performance surpassing the baseline methods, highlighting its potential for advanced scene understanding and manipulation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [260]
标题:  Do Generated Data Always Help Contrastive Learning?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12448
作者:  Yifei Wang,  Jizhe Zhang,  Yisen Wang
备注:  19 pages. Accepted by ICLR 2024
Abstract:Contrastive Learning (CL) has emerged as one of the most successful paradigms for unsupervised visual representation learning, yet it often depends on intensive manual data augmentations. With the rise of generative models, especially diffusion models, the ability to generate realistic images close to the real data distribution has been well recognized. These generated high-equality images have been successfully applied to enhance contrastive representation learning, a technique termed ``data inflation''. However, we find that the generated data (even from a good diffusion model like DDPM) may sometimes even harm contrastive learning. We investigate the causes behind this failure from the perspective of both data inflation and data augmentation. For the first time, we reveal the complementary roles that stronger data inflation should be accompanied by weaker augmentations, and vice versa. We also provide rigorous theoretical explanations for these phenomena via deriving its generalization bounds under data inflation. Drawing from these insights, we propose Adaptive Inflation (AdaInf), a purely data-centric strategy without introducing any extra computation cost. On benchmark datasets, AdaInf can bring significant improvements for various contrastive learning methods. Notably, without using external data, AdaInf obtains 94.70% linear accuracy on CIFAR-10 with SimCLR, setting a new record that surpasses many sophisticated methods. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [261]
标题:  On the effectiveness of Large Language Models for GitHub Workflows
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12446
作者:  Xinyu Zhang,  Siddharth Muralee,  Sourag Cherupattamoolayil,  Aravind Machiry
备注:  
Abstract:GitHub workflows or GitHub CI is a popular continuous integration platform that enables developers to automate various software engineering tasks by specifying them as workflows, i.e., YAML files with a list of jobs. However, engineering valid workflows is tedious. They are also prone to severe security issues, which can result in supply chain vulnerabilities. Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their effectiveness in various software development tasks. However, GitHub workflows differ from regular programs in both structure and semantics. We perform the first comprehensive study to understand the effectiveness of LLMs on five workflow-related tasks with different levels of prompts. We curated a set of $\sim$400K workflows and generated prompts with varying detail. We also fine-tuned LLMs on GitHub workflow tasks. Our evaluation of three state-of-the-art LLMs and their fine-tuned variants revealed various interesting findings on the current effectiveness and drawbacks of LLMs.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [262]
标题:  Boosting Transferability in Vision-Language Attacks via Diversification  along the Intersection Region of Adversarial Trajectory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12445
作者:  Sensen Gao,  Xiaojun Jia,  Xuhong Ren,  Ivor Tsang,  Qing Guo
备注:  
Abstract:Vision-language pre-training (VLP) models exhibit remarkable capabilities in comprehending both images and text, yet they remain susceptible to multimodal adversarial examples (AEs). Strengthening adversarial attacks and uncovering vulnerabilities, especially common issues in VLP models (e.g., high transferable AEs), can stimulate further research on constructing reliable and practical VLP models. A recent work (i.e., Set-level guidance attack) indicates that augmenting image-text pairs to increase AE diversity along the optimization path enhances the transferability of adversarial examples significantly. However, this approach predominantly emphasizes diversity around the online adversarial examples (i.e., AEs in the optimization period), leading to the risk of overfitting the victim model and affecting the transferability. In this study, we posit that the diversity of adversarial examples towards the clean input and online AEs are both pivotal for enhancing transferability across VLP models. Consequently, we propose using diversification along the intersection region of adversarial trajectory to expand the diversity of AEs. To fully leverage the interaction between modalities, we introduce text-guided adversarial example selection during optimization. Furthermore, to further mitigate the potential overfitting, we direct the adversarial text deviating from the last intersection region along the optimization path, rather than adversarial images as in existing methods. Extensive experiments affirm the effectiveness of our method in improving transferability across various VLP models and downstream vision-and-language tasks (e.g., Image-Text Retrieval(ITR), Visual Grounding(VG), Image Captioning(IC)).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [263]
标题:  Self-learning Canonical Space for Multi-view 3D Human Pose Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12440
作者:  Xiaoben Li,  Mancheng Meng,  Ziyan Wu,  Terrence Chen,  Fan Yang,  Dinggang Shen
备注:  
Abstract:Multi-view 3D human pose estimation is naturally superior to single view one, benefiting from more comprehensive information provided by images of multiple views. The information includes camera poses, 2D/3D human poses, and 3D geometry. However, the accurate annotation of these information is hard to obtain, making it challenging to predict accurate 3D human pose from multi-view images. To deal with this issue, we propose a fully self-supervised framework, named cascaded multi-view aggregating network (CMANet), to construct a canonical parameter space to holistically integrate and exploit multi-view information. In our framework, the multi-view information is grouped into two categories: 1) intra-view information , 2) inter-view information. Accordingly, CMANet consists of two components: intra-view module (IRV) and inter-view module (IEV). IRV is used for extracting initial camera pose and 3D human pose of each view; IEV is to fuse complementary pose information and cross-view 3D geometry for a final 3D human pose. To facilitate the aggregation of the intra- and inter-view, we define a canonical parameter space, depicted by per-view camera pose and human pose and shape parameters ($\theta$ and $\beta$) of SMPL model, and propose a two-stage learning procedure. At first stage, IRV learns to estimate camera pose and view-dependent 3D human pose supervised by confident output of an off-the-shelf 2D keypoint detector. At second stage, IRV is frozen and IEV further refines the camera pose and optimizes the 3D human pose by implicitly encoding the cross-view complement and 3D geometry constraint, achieved by jointly fitting predicted multi-view 2D keypoints. The proposed framework, modules, and learning strategy are demonstrated to be effective by comprehensive experiments and CMANet is superior to state-of-the-art methods in extensive quantitative and qualitative analysis.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [264]
标题:  Precise-Physics Driven Text-to-3D Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12438
作者:  Qingshan Xu,  Jiao Liu,  Melvin Wong,  Caishun Chen,  Yew-Soon Ong
备注:  
Abstract:Text-to-3D generation has shown great promise in generating novel 3D content based on given text prompts. However, existing generative methods mostly focus on geometric or visual plausibility while ignoring precise physics perception for the generated 3D shapes. This greatly hinders the practicality of generated 3D shapes in real-world applications. In this work, we propose Phy3DGen, a precise-physics-driven text-to-3D generation method. By analyzing the solid mechanics of generated 3D shapes, we reveal that the 3D shapes generated by existing text-to-3D generation methods are impractical for real-world applications as the generated 3D shapes do not conform to the laws of physics. To this end, we leverage 3D diffusion models to provide 3D shape priors and design a data-driven differentiable physics layer to optimize 3D shape priors with solid mechanics. This allows us to optimize geometry efficiently and learn precise physics information about 3D shapes at the same time. Experimental results demonstrate that our method can consider both geometric plausibility and precise physics perception, further bridging 3D virtual modeling and precise physical worlds.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [265]
标题:  Evaluating Datalog over Semirings: A Grounding-based Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12436
作者:  Hangdong Zhao,  Shaleen Deep,  Paraschos Koutris,  Sudeepa Roy,  Val Tannen
备注:  To appear at PODS 2024
Abstract:Datalog is a powerful yet elegant language that allows expressing recursive computation. Although Datalog evaluation has been extensively studied in the literature, so far, only loose upper bounds are known on how fast a Datalog program can be evaluated. In this work, we ask the following question: given a Datalog program over a naturally-ordered semiring $\sigma$, what is the tightest possible runtime? To this end, our main contribution is a general two-phase framework for analyzing the data complexity of Datalog over $\sigma$: first ground the program into an equivalent system of polynomial equations (i.e. grounding) and then find the least fixpoint of the grounding over $\sigma$. We present algorithms that use structure-aware query evaluation techniques to obtain the smallest possible groundings. Next, efficient algorithms for fixpoint evaluation are introduced over two classes of semirings: (1) finite-rank semirings and (2) absorptive semirings of total order. Combining both phases, we obtain state-of-the-art and new algorithmic results. Finally, we complement our results with a matching fine-grained lower bound.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [266]
标题:  Human Mesh Recovery from Arbitrary Multi-view Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12434
作者:  Xiaoben Li,  Mancheng Meng,  Ziyan Wu,  Terrence Chen,  Fan Yang,  Dinggang Shen
备注:  
Abstract:Human mesh recovery from arbitrary multi-view images involves two characteristics: the arbitrary camera poses and arbitrary number of camera views. Because of the variability, designing a unified framework to tackle this task is challenging. The challenges can be summarized as the dilemma of being able to simultaneously estimate arbitrary camera poses and recover human mesh from arbitrary multi-view images while maintaining flexibility. To solve this dilemma, we propose a divide and conquer framework for Unified Human Mesh Recovery (U-HMR) from arbitrary multi-view images. In particular, U-HMR consists of a decoupled structure and two main components: camera and body decoupling (CBD), camera pose estimation (CPE), and arbitrary view fusion (AVF). As camera poses and human body mesh are independent of each other, CBD splits the estimation of them into two sub-tasks for two individual sub-networks (\ie, CPE and AVF) to handle respectively, thus the two sub-tasks are disentangled. In CPE, since each camera pose is unrelated to the others, we adopt a shared MLP to process all views in a parallel way. In AVF, in order to fuse multi-view information and make the fusion operation independent of the number of views, we introduce a transformer decoder with a SMPL parameters query token to extract cross-view features for mesh recovery. To demonstrate the efficacy and flexibility of the proposed framework and effect of each component, we conduct extensive experiments on three public datasets: Human3.6M, MPI-INF-3DHP, and TotalCapture.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [267]
标题:  Algorithmic Complexity Attacks on Dynamic Learned Indexes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12433
作者:  Rui Yang,  Evgenios M. Kornaropoulos,  Yue Cheng
备注:  VLDB 2024
Abstract:Learned Index Structures (LIS) view a sorted index as a model that learns the data distribution, takes a data element key as input, and outputs the predicted position of the key. The original LIS can only handle lookup operations with no support for updates, rendering it impractical to use for typical workloads. To address this limitation, recent studies have focused on designing efficient dynamic learned indexes. ALEX, as the pioneering dynamic learned index structures, enables dynamism by incorporating a series of design choices, including adaptive key space partitioning, dynamic model retraining, and sophisticated engineering and policies that prioritize read/write performance. While these design choices offer improved average-case performance, the emphasis on flexibility and performance increases the attack surface by allowing adversarial behaviors that maximize ALEX's memory space and time complexity in worst-case scenarios. In this work, we present the first systematic investigation of algorithmic complexity attacks (ACAs) targeting the worst-case scenarios of ALEX. We introduce new ACAs that fall into two categories, space ACAs and time ACAs, which target the memory space and time complexity, respectively. First, our space ACA on data nodes exploits ALEX's gapped array layout and uses Multiple-Choice Knapsack (MCK) to generate an optimal adversarial insertion plan for maximizing the memory consumption at the data node level. Second, our space ACA on internal nodes exploits ALEX's catastrophic cost mitigation mechanism, causing an out-of-memory error with only a few hundred adversarial insertions. Third, our time ACA generates pathological insertions to increase the disparity between the actual key distribution and the linear models of data nodes, deteriorating the runtime performance by up to 1,641X compared to ALEX operating under legitimate workloads.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [268]
标题:  Prototipo de video juego activo basado en una cámara 3D para motivar  la actividad física en niños y adultos mayores
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12432
作者:  Benjamín Ojeda Magaña,  José Guadalupe Robledo Hernández,  Leopoldo Gómez Barba,  Victor Manuel Rangel Cobián
备注:  13 pages, in Spanish language, 11 figures
Abstract:This document describes the development of a video game prototype designed to encourage physical activity among children and older adults. The prototype consists of a laptop, a camera with 3D sensors, and optionally requires an LCD screen or a projector. The programming component of this prototype was developed in Scratch, a programming language geared towards children, which greatly facilitates the creation of a game tailored to the users' preferences. The idea to create such a prototype originated from the desire to offer an option that promotes physical activity among children and adults, given that a lack of physical exercise is a predominant factor in the development of chronic degenerative diseases such as diabetes and hypertension, to name the most common. As a result of this initiative, an active video game prototype was successfully developed, based on a ping-pong game, which allows both children and adults to interact in a fun way while encouraging the performance of physical activities that can positively impact the users' health.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [269]
标题:  Geometric Constraints in Deep Learning Frameworks: A Survey
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12431
作者:  Vibhas K Vats,  David J Crandall
备注:  A preprint
Abstract:Stereophotogrammetry is an emerging technique of scene understanding. Its origins go back to at least the 1800s when people first started to investigate using photographs to measure the physical properties of the world. Since then, thousands of approaches have been explored. The classic geometric techniques of Shape from Stereo is built on using geometry to define constraints on scene and camera geometry and then solving the non-linear systems of equations. More recent work has taken an entirely different approach, using end-to-end deep learning without any attempt to explicitly model the geometry. In this survey, we explore the overlap for geometric-based and deep learning-based frameworks. We compare and contrast geometry enforcing constraints integrated into a deep learning framework for depth estimation or other closely related problems. We present a new taxonomy for prevalent geometry enforcing constraints used in modern deep learning frameworks. We also present insightful observations and potential future research directions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [270]
标题:  TransformMix: Learning Transformation and Mixing Strategies from Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12429
作者:  Tsz-Him Cheung,  Dit-Yan Yeung
备注:  17 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Data augmentation improves the generalization power of deep learning models by synthesizing more training samples. Sample-mixing is a popular data augmentation approach that creates additional data by combining existing samples. Recent sample-mixing methods, like Mixup and Cutmix, adopt simple mixing operations to blend multiple inputs. Although such a heuristic approach shows certain performance gains in some computer vision tasks, it mixes the images blindly and does not adapt to different datasets automatically. A mixing strategy that is effective for a particular dataset does not often generalize well to other datasets. If not properly configured, the methods may create misleading mixed images, which jeopardize the effectiveness of sample-mixing augmentations. In this work, we propose an automated approach, TransformMix, to learn better transformation and mixing augmentation strategies from data. In particular, TransformMix applies learned transformations and mixing masks to create compelling mixed images that contain correct and important information for the target tasks. We demonstrate the effectiveness of TransformMix on multiple datasets in transfer learning, classification, object detection, and knowledge distillation settings. Experimental results show that our method achieves better performance as well as efficiency when compared with strong sample-mixing baselines.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [271]
标题:  Transfer in Sequential Multi-armed Bandits via Reward Samples
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12428
作者:  Rahul N R,  Vaibhav Katewa
备注:  Paper accepted in ECC 2024
Abstract:We consider a sequential stochastic multi-armed bandit problem where the agent interacts with bandit over multiple episodes. The reward distribution of the arms remain constant throughout an episode but can change over different episodes. We propose an algorithm based on UCB to transfer the reward samples from the previous episodes and improve the cumulative regret performance over all the episodes. We provide regret analysis and empirical results for our algorithm, which show significant improvement over the standard UCB algorithm without transfer.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [272]
标题:  Multimodal Fusion Method with Spatiotemporal Sequences and Relationship  Learning for Valence-Arousal Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12425
作者:  Jun Yu,  Gongpeng Zhao,  Yongqi Wan,  Zhihong Wei,  Yang Zheng,  Zerui Zhang,  Zhongpeng Cai,  Guochen Xie,  Jichao Zhu,  Wangyuan Zhu
备注:  6 pages,1 figures
Abstract:This paper presents our approach for the VA (Valence-Arousal) estimation task in the ABAW6 competition. We devised a comprehensive model by preprocessing video frames and audio segments to extract visual and audio features. Through the utilization of Temporal Convolutional Network (TCN) modules, we effectively captured the temporal and spatial correlations between these features. Subsequently, we employed a Transformer encoder structure to learn long-range dependencies, thereby enhancing the model's performance and generalization ability. Our method leverages a multimodal data fusion approach, integrating pre-trained audio and video backbones for feature extraction, followed by TCN-based spatiotemporal encoding and Transformer-based temporal information capture. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, achieving competitive performance in VA estimation on the AffWild2 dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [273]
标题:  Jetfire: Efficient and Accurate Transformer Pretraining with INT8 Data  Flow and Per-Block Quantization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12422
作者:  Haocheng Xi,  Yuxiang Chen,  Kang Zhao,  Kaijun Zheng,  Jianfei Chen,  Jun Zhu
备注:  14 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Pretraining transformers are generally time-consuming. Fully quantized training (FQT) is a promising approach to speed up pretraining. However, most FQT methods adopt a quantize-compute-dequantize procedure, which often leads to suboptimal speedup and significant performance degradation when used in transformers due to the high memory access overheads and low-precision computations. In this work, we propose Jetfire, an efficient and accurate INT8 training method specific to transformers. Our method features an INT8 data flow to optimize memory access and a per-block quantization method to maintain the accuracy of pretrained transformers. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our INT8 FQT method achieves comparable accuracy to the FP16 training baseline and outperforms the existing INT8 training works for transformers. Moreover, for a standard transformer block, our method offers an end-to-end training speedup of 1.42x and a 1.49x memory reduction compared to the FP16 baseline.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [274]
标题:  UniDexFPM: Universal Dexterous Functional Pre-grasp Manipulation Via  Diffusion Policy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12421
作者:  Tianhao Wu,  Yunchong Gan,  Mingdong Wu,  Jingbo Cheng,  Yaodong Yang,  Yixin Zhu,  Hao Dong
备注:  
Abstract:Objects in the real world are often not naturally positioned for functional grasping, which usually requires repositioning and reorientation before they can be grasped, a process known as pre-grasp manipulation. However, effective learning of universal dexterous functional pre-grasp manipulation necessitates precise control over relative position, relative orientation, and contact between the hand and object, while generalizing to diverse dynamic scenarios with varying objects and goal poses. We address the challenge by using teacher-student learning. We propose a novel mutual reward that incentivizes agents to jointly optimize three key criteria. Furthermore, we introduce a pipeline that leverages a mixture-of-experts strategy to learn diverse manipulation policies, followed by a diffusion policy to capture complex action distributions from these experts. Our method achieves a success rate of 72.6% across 30+ object categories encompassing 1400+ objects and 10k+ goal poses. Notably, our method relies solely on object pose information for universal dexterous functional pre-grasp manipulation by using extrinsic dexterity and adjusting from feedback. Additional experiments under noisy object pose observation showcase the robustness of our method and its potential for real-world applications. The demonstrations can be viewed at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [275]
标题:  Bin Packing Optimization via Deep Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12420
作者:  Baoying Wang,  Huixu Dong
备注:  
Abstract:The Bin Packing Problem (BPP) has attracted enthusiastic research interest recently, owing to widespread applications in logistics and warehousing environments. It is truly essential to optimize the bin packing to enable more objects to be packed into boxes. Object packing order and placement strategy are the two crucial optimization objectives of the BPP. However, existing optimization methods for BPP, such as the genetic algorithm (GA), emerge as the main issues in highly computational cost and relatively low accuracy, making it difficult to implement in realistic scenarios. To well relieve the research gaps, we present a novel optimization methodology of two-dimensional (2D)-BPP and three-dimensional (3D)-BPP for objects with regular shapes via deep reinforcement learning (DRL), maximizing the space utilization and minimizing the usage number of boxes. First, an end-to-end DRL neural network constructed by a modified Pointer Network consisting of an encoder, a decoder and an attention module is proposed to achieve the optimal object packing order. Second, conforming to the top-down operation mode, the placement strategy based on a height map is used to arrange the ordered objects in the boxes, preventing the objects from colliding with boxes and other objects in boxes. Third, the reward and loss functions are defined as the indicators of the compactness, pyramid, and usage number of boxes to conduct the training of the DRL neural network based on an on-policy actor-critic framework. Finally, a series of experiments are implemented to compare our method with conventional packing methods, from which we conclude that our method outperforms these packing methods in both packing accuracy and efficiency.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [276]
标题:  Sparsity-Constrained Community-Based Group Testing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12419
作者:  Sarthak Jain,  Martina Cardone,  Soheil Mohajer
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we consider the sparsity-constrained community-based group testing problem, where the population follows a community structure. In particular, the community consists of $F$ families, each with $M$ members. A number $k_f$ out of the $F$ families are infected, and a family is said to be infected if $k_m$ out of its $M$ members are infected. Furthermore, the sparsity constraint allows at most $\rho_T$ individuals to be grouped in each test. For this sparsity-constrained community model, we propose a probabilistic group testing algorithm that can identify the infected population with a vanishing probability of error and we provide an upper-bound on the number of tests. When $k_m = \Theta(M)$ and $M \gg \log(FM)$, our bound outperforms the existing sparsity-constrained group testing results trivially applied to the community model. If the sparsity constraint is relaxed, our achievable bound reduces to existing bounds for community-based group testing. Moreover, our scheme can also be applied to the classical dilution model, where it outperforms existing noise-level-independent schemes in the literature.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [277]
标题:  STG-Mamba: Spatial-Temporal Graph Learning via Selective State Space  Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12418
作者:  Lincan Li,  Hanchen Wang,  Wenjie Zhang,  Adelle Coster
备注:  
Abstract:Spatial-Temporal Graph (STG) data is characterized as dynamic, heterogenous, and non-stationary, leading to the continuous challenge of spatial-temporal graph learning. In the past few years, various GNN-based methods have been proposed to solely focus on mimicking the relationships among node individuals of the STG network, ignoring the significance of modeling the intrinsic features that exist in STG system over time. In contrast, modern Selective State Space Models (SSSMs) present a new approach which treat STG Network as a system, and meticulously explore the STG system's dynamic state evolution across temporal dimension. In this work, we introduce Spatial-Temporal Graph Mamba (STG-Mamba) as the first exploration of leveraging the powerful selective state space models for STG learning by treating STG Network as a system, and employing the Graph Selective State Space Block (GS3B) to precisely characterize the dynamic evolution of STG networks. STG-Mamba is formulated as an Encoder-Decoder architecture, which takes GS3B as the basic module, for efficient sequential data modeling. Furthermore, to strengthen GNN's ability of modeling STG data under the setting of SSSMs, we propose Kalman Filtering Graph Neural Networks (KFGN) for adaptive graph structure upgrading. KFGN smoothly fits in the context of selective state space evolution, and at the same time keeps linear complexity. Extensive empirical studies are conducted on three benchmark STG forecasting datasets, demonstrating the performance superiority and computational efficiency of STG-Mamba. It not only surpasses existing state-of-the-art methods in terms of STG forecasting performance, but also effectively alleviate the computational bottleneck of large-scale graph networks in reducing the computational cost of FLOPs and test inference time.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [278]
标题:  On Predictive planning and counterfactual learning in active inference
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12417
作者:  Aswin Paul,  Takuya Isomura,  Adeel Razi
备注:  13 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Given the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence, understanding the foundations of intelligent behaviour is increasingly important. Active inference, regarded as a general theory of behaviour, offers a principled approach to probing the basis of sophistication in planning and decision-making. In this paper, we examine two decision-making schemes in active inference based on 'planning' and 'learning from experience'. Furthermore, we also introduce a mixed model that navigates the data-complexity trade-off between these strategies, leveraging the strengths of both to facilitate balanced decision-making. We evaluate our proposed model in a challenging grid-world scenario that requires adaptability from the agent. Additionally, our model provides the opportunity to analyze the evolution of various parameters, offering valuable insights and contributing to an explainable framework for intelligent decision-making.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [279]
标题:  Eye-gaze Guided Multi-modal Alignment Framework for Radiology
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12416
作者:  Chong Ma,  Hanqi Jiang,  Wenting Chen,  Zihao Wu,  Xiaowei Yu,  Fang Zeng,  Lei Guo,  Dajiang Zhu,  Tuo Zhang,  Dinggang Shen,  Tianming Liu,  Xiang Li
备注:  12 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:In multi-modal frameworks, the alignment of cross-modal features presents a significant challenge. The predominant approach in multi-modal pre-training emphasizes either global or local alignment between modalities, utilizing extensive datasets. This bottom-up driven method often suffers from a lack of interpretability, a critical concern in radiology. Previous studies have integrated high-level labels in medical images or text, but these still rely on manual annotation, a costly and labor-intensive process. Our work introduces a novel approach by using eye-gaze data, collected synchronously by radiologists during diagnostic evaluations. This data, indicating radiologists' focus areas, naturally links chest X-rays to diagnostic texts. We propose the Eye-gaze Guided Multi-modal Alignment (EGMA) framework to harness eye-gaze data for better alignment of image and text features, aiming to reduce reliance on manual annotations and thus cut training costs. Our model demonstrates robust performance, outperforming other state-of-the-art methods in zero-shot classification and retrieval tasks. The incorporation of easily-obtained eye-gaze data during routine radiological diagnoses signifies a step towards minimizing manual annotation dependency. Additionally, we explore the impact of varying amounts of eye-gaze data on model performance, highlighting the feasibility and utility of integrating this auxiliary data into multi-modal pre-training.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [280]
标题:  VisionGPT: LLM-Assisted Real-Time Anomaly Detection for Safe Visual  Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12415
作者:  Hao Wang,  Jiayou Qin,  Ashish Bastola,  Xiwen Chen,  John Suchanek,  Zihao Gong,  Abolfazl Razi
备注:  
Abstract:This paper explores the potential of Large Language Models(LLMs) in zero-shot anomaly detection for safe visual navigation. With the assistance of the state-of-the-art real-time open-world object detection model Yolo-World and specialized prompts, the proposed framework can identify anomalies within camera-captured frames that include any possible obstacles, then generate concise, audio-delivered descriptions emphasizing abnormalities, assist in safe visual navigation in complex circumstances. Moreover, our proposed framework leverages the advantages of LLMs and the open-vocabulary object detection model to achieve the dynamic scenario switch, which allows users to transition smoothly from scene to scene, which addresses the limitation of traditional visual navigation. Furthermore, this paper explored the performance contribution of different prompt components, provided the vision for future improvement in visual accessibility, and paved the way for LLMs in video anomaly detection and vision-language understanding.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [281]
标题:  Third-Party Language Model Performance Prediction from Instruction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12413
作者:  Rahul Nadkarni,  Yizhong Wang,  Noah A. Smith
备注:  
Abstract:Language model-based instruction-following systems have lately shown increasing performance on many benchmark tasks, demonstrating the capability of adapting to a broad variety of instructions. However, such systems are often not designed to be transparent about their limitations; a user may easily prompt a model with an instruction without any idea of whether the responses should be expected to be accurate, or if the system is even capable of performing the task. We propose a third party performance prediction framework, where a separate model is trained to predict the metric resulting from evaluating an instruction-following system on a task while assuming access only to its inputs and outputs at inference time. We perform this analysis with a variety of both open and closed instruction-following models as well as multiple performance predictors, and examine the effect of various factors such as model size, number of training tasks, and prompt format. Our findings indicate that third-party performance prediction is very challenging, and much work remains in developing predictors that can automatically reveal the limitations of modern instruction-following natural language processing systems.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [282]
标题:  TikTok and the Art of Personalization: Investigating Exploration and  Exploitation on Social Media Feeds
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12410
作者:  Karan Vombatkere,  Sepehr Mousavi,  Savvas Zannettou,  Franziska Roesner,  Krishna P. Gummadi
备注:  ACM Web Conference 2024
Abstract:Recommendation algorithms for social media feeds often function as black boxes from the perspective of users. We aim to detect whether social media feed recommendations are personalized to users, and to characterize the factors contributing to personalization in these feeds. We introduce a general framework to examine a set of social media feed recommendations for a user as a timeline. We label items in the timeline as the result of exploration vs. exploitation of the user's interests on the part of the recommendation algorithm and introduce a set of metrics to capture the extent of personalization across user timelines. We apply our framework to a real TikTok dataset and validate our results using a baseline generated from automated TikTok bots, as well as a randomized baseline. We also investigate the extent to which factors such as video viewing duration, liking, and following drive the personalization of content on TikTok. Our results demonstrate that our framework produces intuitive and explainable results, and can be used to audit and understand personalization in social media feeds.
Subjects: Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [283]
标题:  ComboVerse: Compositional 3D Assets Creation Using Spatially-Aware  Diffusion Guidance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12409
作者:  Yongwei Chen,  Tengfei Wang,  Tong Wu,  Xingang Pan,  Kui Jia,  Ziwei Liu
备注:  this https URL
Abstract:Generating high-quality 3D assets from a given image is highly desirable in various applications such as AR/VR. Recent advances in single-image 3D generation explore feed-forward models that learn to infer the 3D model of an object without optimization. Though promising results have been achieved in single object generation, these methods often struggle to model complex 3D assets that inherently contain multiple objects. In this work, we present ComboVerse, a 3D generation framework that produces high-quality 3D assets with complex compositions by learning to combine multiple models. 1) We first perform an in-depth analysis of this ``multi-object gap'' from both model and data perspectives. 2) Next, with reconstructed 3D models of different objects, we seek to adjust their sizes, rotation angles, and locations to create a 3D asset that matches the given image. 3) To automate this process, we apply spatially-aware score distillation sampling (SSDS) from pretrained diffusion models to guide the positioning of objects. Our proposed framework emphasizes spatial alignment of objects, compared with standard score distillation sampling, and thus achieves more accurate results. Extensive experiments validate ComboVerse achieves clear improvements over existing methods in generating compositional 3D assets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [284]
标题:  MSLM-S2ST: A Multitask Speech Language Model for Textless  Speech-to-Speech Translation with Speaker Style Preservation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12408
作者:  Yifan Peng,  Ilia Kulikov,  Yilin Yang,  Sravya Popuri,  Hui Lu,  Changhan Wang,  Hongyu Gong
备注:  
Abstract:There have been emerging research interest and advances in speech-to-speech translation (S2ST), translating utterances from one language to another. This work proposes Multitask Speech Language Model (MSLM), which is a decoder-only speech language model trained in a multitask setting. Without reliance on text training data, our model is able to support multilingual S2ST with speaker style preserved.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [285]
标题:  Cross-Lingual Transfer for Natural Language Inference via Multilingual  Prompt Translator
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12407
作者:  Xiaoyu Qiu,  Yuechen Wang,  Jiaxin Shi,  Wengang Zhou,  Houqiang Li
备注:  6 pages, 5 figures, conference
Abstract:Based on multilingual pre-trained models, cross-lingual transfer with prompt learning has shown promising effectiveness, where soft prompt learned in a source language is transferred to target languages for downstream tasks, particularly in the low-resource scenario. To efficiently transfer soft prompt, we propose a novel framework, Multilingual Prompt Translator (MPT), where a multilingual prompt translator is introduced to properly process crucial knowledge embedded in prompt by changing language knowledge while retaining task knowledge. Concretely, we first train prompt in source language and employ translator to translate it into target prompt. Besides, we extend an external corpus as auxiliary data, on which an alignment task for predicted answer probability is designed to convert language knowledge, thereby equipping target prompt with multilingual knowledge. In few-shot settings on XNLI, MPT demonstrates superiority over baselines by remarkable improvements. MPT is more prominent compared with vanilla prompting when transferring to languages quite distinct from source language.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [286]
标题:  Offline Imitation of Badminton Player Behavior via Experiential Contexts  and Brownian Motion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12406
作者:  Kuang-Da Wang,  Wei-Yao Wang,  Ping-Chun Hsieh,  Wen-Chih Peng
备注:  Preprint
Abstract:In the dynamic and rapid tactic involvements of turn-based sports, badminton stands out as an intrinsic paradigm that requires alter-dependent decision-making of players. While the advancement of learning from offline expert data in sequential decision-making has been witnessed in various domains, how to rally-wise imitate the behaviors of human players from offline badminton matches has remained underexplored. Replicating opponents' behavior benefits players by allowing them to undergo strategic development with direction before matches. However, directly applying existing methods suffers from the inherent hierarchy of the match and the compounding effect due to the turn-based nature of players alternatively taking actions. In this paper, we propose RallyNet, a novel hierarchical offline imitation learning model for badminton player behaviors: (i) RallyNet captures players' decision dependencies by modeling decision-making processes as a contextual Markov decision process. (ii) RallyNet leverages the experience to generate context as the agent's intent in the rally. (iii) To generate more realistic behavior, RallyNet leverages Geometric Brownian Motion (GBM) to model the interactions between players by introducing a valuable inductive bias for learning player behaviors. In this manner, RallyNet links player intents with interaction models with GBM, providing an understanding of interactions for sports analytics. We extensively validate RallyNet with the largest available real-world badminton dataset consisting of men's and women's singles, demonstrating its ability to imitate player behaviors. Results reveal RallyNet's superiority over offline imitation learning methods and state-of-the-art turn-based approaches, outperforming them by at least 16% in mean rule-based agent normalization score. Furthermore, we discuss various practical use cases to highlight RallyNet's applicability.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [287]
标题:  Understanding Training-free Diffusion Guidance: Mechanisms and  Limitations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12404
作者:  Yifei Shen,  Xinyang Jiang,  Yezhen Wang,  Yifan Yang,  Dongqi Han,  Dongsheng Li
备注:  
Abstract:Adding additional control to pretrained diffusion models has become an increasingly popular research area, with extensive applications in computer vision, reinforcement learning, and AI for science. Recently, several studies have proposed training-free diffusion guidance by using off-the-shelf networks pretrained on clean images. This approach enables zero-shot conditional generation for universal control formats, which appears to offer a free lunch in diffusion guidance. In this paper, we aim to develop a deeper understanding of the operational mechanisms and fundamental limitations of training-free guidance. We offer a theoretical analysis that supports training-free guidance from the perspective of optimization, distinguishing it from classifier-based (or classifier-free) guidance. To elucidate their drawbacks, we theoretically demonstrate that training-free methods are more susceptible to adversarial gradients and exhibit slower convergence rates compared to classifier guidance. We then introduce a collection of techniques designed to overcome the limitations, accompanied by theoretical rationale and empirical evidence. Our experiments in image and motion generation confirm the efficacy of these techniques.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [288]
标题:  Towards Interpretable Hate Speech Detection using Large Language  Model-extracted Rationales
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12403
作者:  Ayushi Nirmal,  Amrita Bhattacharjee,  Paras Sheth,  Huan Liu
备注:  First two authors contributed equally
Abstract:Although social media platforms are a prominent arena for users to engage in interpersonal discussions and express opinions, the facade and anonymity offered by social media may allow users to spew hate speech and offensive content. Given the massive scale of such platforms, there arises a need to automatically identify and flag instances of hate speech. Although several hate speech detection methods exist, most of these black-box methods are not interpretable or explainable by design. To address the lack of interpretability, in this paper, we propose to use state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs) to extract features in the form of rationales from the input text, to train a base hate speech classifier, thereby enabling faithful interpretability by design. Our framework effectively combines the textual understanding capabilities of LLMs and the discriminative power of state-of-the-art hate speech classifiers to make these classifiers faithfully interpretable. Our comprehensive evaluation on a variety of social media hate speech datasets demonstrate: (1) the goodness of the LLM-extracted rationales, and (2) the surprising retention of detector performance even after training to ensure interpretability.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [289]
标题:  An Empirical Study of Speech Language Models for Prompt-Conditioned  Speech Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12402
作者:  Yifan Peng,  Ilia Kulikov,  Yilin Yang,  Sravya Popuri,  Hui Lu,  Changhan Wang,  Hongyu Gong
备注:  
Abstract:Speech language models (LMs) are promising for high-quality speech synthesis through in-context learning. A typical speech LM takes discrete semantic units as content and a short utterance as prompt, and synthesizes speech which preserves the content's semantics but mimics the prompt's style. However, there is no systematic understanding on how the synthesized audio is controlled by the prompt and content. In this work, we conduct an empirical study of the widely used autoregressive (AR) and non-autoregressive (NAR) speech LMs and provide insights into the prompt design and content semantic units. Our analysis reveals that heterogeneous and nonstationary prompts hurt the audio quality in contrast to the previous finding that longer prompts always lead to better synthesis. Moreover, we find that the speaker style of the synthesized audio is also affected by the content in addition to the prompt. We further show that semantic units carry rich acoustic information such as pitch, tempo, volume and speech emphasis, which might be leaked from the content to the synthesized audio.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [290]
标题:  VQ-NeRV: A Vector Quantized Neural Representation for Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12401
作者:  Yunjie Xu,  Xiang Feng,  Feiwei Qin,  Ruiquan Ge,  Yong Peng,  Changmiao Wang
备注:  Under Review
Abstract:Implicit neural representations (INR) excel in encoding videos within neural networks, showcasing promise in computer vision tasks like video compression and denoising. INR-based approaches reconstruct video frames from content-agnostic embeddings, which hampers their efficacy in video frame regression and restricts their generalization ability for video interpolation. To address these deficiencies, Hybrid Neural Representation for Videos (HNeRV) was introduced with content-adaptive embeddings. Nevertheless, HNeRV's compression ratios remain relatively low, attributable to an oversight in leveraging the network's shallow features and inter-frame residual information. In this work, we introduce an advanced U-shaped architecture, Vector Quantized-NeRV (VQ-NeRV), which integrates a novel component--the VQ-NeRV Block. This block incorporates a codebook mechanism to discretize the network's shallow residual features and inter-frame residual information effectively. This approach proves particularly advantageous in video compression, as it results in smaller size compared to quantized features. Furthermore, we introduce an original codebook optimization technique, termed shallow codebook optimization, designed to refine the utility and efficiency of the codebook. The experimental evaluations indicate that VQ-NeRV outperforms HNeRV on video regression tasks, delivering superior reconstruction quality (with an increase of 1-2 dB in Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR)), better bit per pixel (bpp) efficiency, and improved video inpainting outcomes.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [291]
标题:  Finding the Missing Data: A BERT-inspired Approach Against Package Loss  in Wireless Sensing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12400
作者:  Zijian Zhao,  Tingwei Chen,  Fanyi Meng,  Hang Li,  Xiaoyang Li,  Guangxu Zhu
备注:  6 pages, accepted by IEEE INFOCOM Deepwireless Workshop 2024
Abstract:Despite the development of various deep learning methods for Wi-Fi sensing, package loss often results in noncontinuous estimation of the Channel State Information (CSI), which negatively impacts the performance of the learning models. To overcome this challenge, we propose a deep learning model based on Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) for CSI recovery, named CSI-BERT. CSI-BERT can be trained in an self-supervised manner on the target dataset without the need for additional data. Furthermore, unlike traditional interpolation methods that focus on one subcarrier at a time, CSI-BERT captures the sequential relationships across different subcarriers. Experimental results demonstrate that CSI-BERT achieves lower error rates and faster speed compared to traditional interpolation methods, even when facing with high loss rates. Moreover, by harnessing the recovered CSI obtained from CSI-BERT, other deep learning models like Residual Network and Recurrent Neural Network can achieve an average increase in accuracy of approximately 15\% in Wi-Fi sensing tasks. The collected dataset WiGesture and code for our model are publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [292]
标题:  Electioneering the Network: Dynamic Multi-Step Adversarial Attacks for  Community Canvassing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12399
作者:  Saurabh Sharma,  Ambuj SIngh
备注:  
Abstract:The problem of online social network manipulation for community canvassing is of real concern in today's world. Motivated by the study of voter models, opinion and polarization dynamics on networks, we model community canvassing as a dynamic process over a network enabled via gradient-based attacks on GNNs. Existing attacks on GNNs are all single-step and do not account for the dynamic cascading nature of information diffusion in networks. We consider the realistic scenario where an adversary uses a GNN as a proxy to predict and manipulate voter preferences, especially uncertain voters. Gradient-based attacks on the GNN inform the adversary of strategic manipulations that can be made to proselytize targeted voters. In particular, we explore $\textit{minimum budget attacks for community canvassing}$ (MBACC). We show that the MBACC problem is NP-Hard and propose Dynamic Multi-Step Adversarial Community Canvassing (MAC) to address it. MAC makes dynamic local decisions based on the heuristic of low budget and high second-order influence to convert and perturb target voters. MAC is a dynamic multi-step attack that discovers low-budget and high-influence targets from which efficient cascading attacks can happen. We evaluate MAC against single-step baselines on the MBACC problem with multiple underlying networks and GNN models. Our experiments show the superiority of MAC which is able to discover efficient multi-hop attacks for adversarial community canvassing. Our code implementation and data is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [293]
标题:  Hierarchical Digital Twin for Efficient 6G Network Orchestration via  Adaptive Attribute Selection and Scalable Network Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12398
作者:  Pengyi Jia,  Xianbin Wang,  Xuemin (Sherman) Shen
备注:  
Abstract:Achieving a holistic and long-term understanding through accurate network modeling is essential for orchestrating future networks with increasing service diversity and infrastructure complexities. However, due to unselective data collection and uniform processing, traditional modeling approaches undermine the efficacy and timeliness of network orchestration. Additionally, temporal disparities arising from various modeling delays further impair the centralized decision-making with distributed models. In this paper, we propose a new hierarchical digital twin paradigm adapting to real-time network situations for problem-centered model construction. Specifically, we introduce an adaptive attribute selection mechanism that evaluates the distinct modeling values of diverse network attributes, considering their relevance to current network scenarios and inherent modeling complexity. By prioritizing critical attributes at higher layers, an efficient evaluation of network situations is achieved to identify target areas. Subsequently, scalable network modeling facilitates the inclusion of all identified elements at the lower layers, where more fine-grained digital twins are developed to generate targeted solutions for user association and power allocation. Furthermore, virtual-physical domain synchronization is implemented to maintain accurate temporal alignment between the digital twins and their physical counterparts, spanning from the construction to the utilization of the proposed paradigm. Extensive simulations validate the proposed approach, demonstrating its effectiveness in efficiently identifying pressing issues and delivering network orchestration solutions in complex 6G HetNets.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [294]
标题:  OV9D: Open-Vocabulary Category-Level 9D Object Pose and Size Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12396
作者:  Junhao Cai,  Yisheng He,  Weihao Yuan,  Siyu Zhu,  Zilong Dong,  Liefeng Bo,  Qifeng Chen
备注:  
Abstract:This paper studies a new open-set problem, the open-vocabulary category-level object pose and size estimation. Given human text descriptions of arbitrary novel object categories, the robot agent seeks to predict the position, orientation, and size of the target object in the observed scene image. To enable such generalizability, we first introduce OO3D-9D, a large-scale photorealistic dataset for this task. Derived from OmniObject3D, OO3D-9D is the largest and most diverse dataset in the field of category-level object pose and size estimation. It includes additional annotations for the symmetry axis of each category, which help resolve symmetric ambiguity. Apart from the large-scale dataset, we find another key to enabling such generalizability is leveraging the strong prior knowledge in pre-trained visual-language foundation models. We then propose a framework built on pre-trained DinoV2 and text-to-image stable diffusion models to infer the normalized object coordinate space (NOCS) maps of the target instances. This framework fully leverages the visual semantic prior from DinoV2 and the aligned visual and language knowledge within the text-to-image diffusion model, which enables generalization to various text descriptions of novel categories. Comprehensive quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate that the proposed open-vocabulary method, trained on our large-scale synthesized data, significantly outperforms the baseline and can effectively generalize to real-world images of unseen categories. The project page is at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [295]
标题:  Dr3: Ask Large Language Models Not to Give Off-Topic Answers in Open  Domain Multi-Hop Question Answering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12393
作者:  Yuan Gao,  Yiheng Zhu,  Yuanbin Cao,  Yinzhi Zhou,  Zhen Wu,  Yujie Chen,  Shenglan Wu,  Haoyuan Hu,  Xinyu Dai
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024, Long Paper
Abstract:Open Domain Multi-Hop Question Answering (ODMHQA) plays a crucial role in Natural Language Processing (NLP) by aiming to answer complex questions through multi-step reasoning over retrieved information from external knowledge sources. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance in solving ODMHQA owing to their capabilities including planning, reasoning, and utilizing tools. However, LLMs may generate off-topic answers when attempting to solve ODMHQA, namely the generated answers are irrelevant to the original questions. This issue of off-topic answers accounts for approximately one-third of incorrect answers, yet remains underexplored despite its significance. To alleviate this issue, we propose the Discriminate->Re-Compose->Re- Solve->Re-Decompose (Dr3) mechanism. Specifically, the Discriminator leverages the intrinsic capabilities of LLMs to judge whether the generated answers are off-topic. In cases where an off-topic answer is detected, the Corrector performs step-wise revisions along the reversed reasoning chain (Re-Compose->Re-Solve->Re-Decompose) until the final answer becomes on-topic. Experimental results on the HotpotQA and 2WikiMultiHopQA datasets demonstrate that our Dr3 mechanism considerably reduces the occurrence of off-topic answers in ODMHQA by nearly 13%, improving the performance in Exact Match (EM) by nearly 3% compared to the baseline method without the Dr3 mechanism.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [296]
标题:  AraPoemBERT: A Pretrained Language Model for Arabic Poetry Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12392
作者:  Faisal Qarah
备注:  28 pages, 11 figures, not published yet
Abstract:Arabic poetry, with its rich linguistic features and profound cultural significance, presents a unique challenge to the Natural Language Processing (NLP) field. The complexity of its structure and context necessitates advanced computational models for accurate analysis. In this paper, we introduce AraPoemBERT, an Arabic language model pretrained exclusively on Arabic poetry text. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model, we compared AraPoemBERT with 5 different Arabic language models on various NLP tasks related to Arabic poetry. The new model outperformed all other models and achieved state-of-the-art results in most of the downstream tasks. AraPoemBERT achieved unprecedented accuracy in two out of three novel tasks: poet's gender classification (99.34\% accuracy), and poetry sub-meter classification (97.79\% accuracy). In addition, the model achieved an accuracy score in poems' rhyme classification (97.73\% accuracy) which is almost equivalent to the best score reported in this study. Moreover, the proposed model significantly outperformed previous work and other comparative models in the tasks of poems' sentiment analysis, achieving an accuracy of 78.95\%, and poetry meter classification (99.03\% accuracy), while significantly expanding the scope of these two problems. The dataset used in this study, contains more than 2.09 million verses collected from online sources, each associated with various attributes such as meter, sub-meter, poet, rhyme, and topic. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model in understanding and analyzing Arabic poetry, achieving state-of-the-art results in several tasks and outperforming previous works and other language models included in the study. AraPoemBERT model is publicly available on \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [297]
标题:  FairSTG: Countering performance heterogeneity via collaborative  sample-level optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12391
作者:  Gengyu Lin,  Zhengyang Zhou,  Qihe Huang,  Kuo Yang,  Shifen Cheng,  Yang Wang
备注:  Under review by IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing
Abstract:Spatiotemporal learning plays a crucial role in mobile computing techniques to empower smart cites. While existing research has made great efforts to achieve accurate predictions on the overall dataset, they still neglect the significant performance heterogeneity across samples. In this work, we designate the performance heterogeneity as the reason for unfair spatiotemporal learning, which not only degrades the practical functions of models, but also brings serious potential risks to real-world urban applications. To fix this gap, we propose a model-independent Fairness-aware framework for SpatioTemporal Graph learning (FairSTG), which inherits the idea of exploiting advantages of well-learned samples to challenging ones with collaborative mix-up. Specifically, FairSTG consists of a spatiotemporal feature extractor for model initialization, a collaborative representation enhancement for knowledge transfer between well-learned samples and challenging ones, and fairness objectives for immediately suppressing sample-level performance heterogeneity. Experiments on four spatiotemporal datasets demonstrate that our FairSTG significantly improves the fairness quality while maintaining comparable forecasting accuracy. Case studies show FairSTG can counter both spatial and temporal performance heterogeneity by our sample-level retrieval and compensation, and our work can potentially alleviate the risks on spatiotemporal resource allocation for underrepresented urban regions.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [298]
标题:  Learning-guided iterated local search for the minmax multiple traveling  salesman problem
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12389
作者:  Pengfei He,  Jin-Kao Hao,  Jinhui Xia
备注:  
Abstract:The minmax multiple traveling salesman problem involves minimizing the longest tour among a set of tours. The problem is of great practical interest because it can be used to formulate several real-life applications. To solve this computationally challenging problem, we propose a leaning-driven iterated local search approach that combines an aggressive local search procedure with a probabilistic acceptance criterion to find high-quality local optimal solutions and a multi-armed bandit algorithm to select various removal and insertion operators to escape local optimal traps. Extensive experiments on 77 commonly used benchmark instances show that our algorithm achieves excellent results in terms of solution quality and running time. In particular, it achieves 32 new best-known results and matches the best-known results for 35 other instances. Additional experiments shed light on the understanding of the composing elements of the algorithm.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [299]
标题:  Interpretable User Satisfaction Estimation for Conversational Systems  with Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12388
作者:  Ying-Chun Lin,  Jennifer Neville,  Jack W. Stokes,  Longqi Yang,  Tara Safavi,  Mengting Wan,  Scott Counts,  Siddharth Suri,  Reid Andersen,  Xiaofeng Xu,  Deepak Gupta,  Sujay Kumar Jauhar,  Xia Song,  Georg Buscher,  Saurabh Tiwary,  Brent Hecht,  Jaime Teevan
备注:  
Abstract:Accurate and interpretable user satisfaction estimation (USE) is critical for understanding, evaluating, and continuously improving conversational systems. Users express their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with diverse conversational patterns in both general-purpose (ChatGPT and Bing Copilot) and task-oriented (customer service chatbot) conversational systems. Existing approaches based on featurized ML models or text embeddings fall short in extracting generalizable patterns and are hard to interpret. In this work, we show that LLMs can extract interpretable signals of user satisfaction from their natural language utterances more effectively than embedding-based approaches. Moreover, an LLM can be tailored for USE via an iterative prompting framework using supervision from labeled examples. The resulting method, Supervised Prompting for User satisfaction Rubrics (SPUR), not only has higher accuracy but is more interpretable as it scores user satisfaction via learned rubrics with a detailed breakdown.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [300]
标题:  ProgrammableGrass: A Shape-Changing Artificial Grass Display Adapted for  Dynamic and Interactive Display Features
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12387
作者:  Kojiro Tanaka,  Akito Mizuno,  Toranosuke Kato,  Masahiko Mikawa,  Makoto Fujisawa
备注:  
Abstract:There are various proposals for employing grass materials as a green landscape-friendly display. However, it is difficult for current techniques to display smooth animations using 8-bit images and to adjust display resolution, similar to conventional displays. We present ProgrammableGrass, an artificial grass display with scalable resolution, capable of swiftly controlling grass color at 8-bit levels. This grass display can control grass colors linearly at the 8-bit level, similar to an LCD display, and can also display not only 8-bit-based images but also videos. This display enables pixel-by-pixel color transitions from yellow to green using fixed-length yellow and adjustable-length green grass. We designed a grass module that can be connected to other modules. Utilizing a proportional derivative control, the grass colors are manipulated to display animations at approximately 10 [fps]. Since the relationship between grass lengths and colors is nonlinear, we developed a calibration system for ProgrammableGrass. We revealed that this calibration system allows ProgrammableGrass to linearly control grass colors at 8-bit levels through experiments under multiple conditions. Lastly, we demonstrate ProgrammableGrass to show smooth animations with 8-bit grayscale images. Moreover, we show several application examples to illustrate the potential of ProgrammableGrass. With the advancement of this technology, users will be able to treat grass as a green-based interactive display device.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [301]
标题:  Pipelined Biomedical Event Extraction Rivaling Joint Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12386
作者:  Pengchao Wu,  Xuefeng Li,  Jinghang Gu,  Longhua Qian,  Guodong Zhou
备注:  
Abstract:Biomedical event extraction is an information extraction task to obtain events from biomedical text, whose targets include the type, the trigger, and the respective arguments involved in an event. Traditional biomedical event extraction usually adopts a pipelined approach, which contains trigger identification, argument role recognition, and finally event construction either using specific rules or by machine learning. In this paper, we propose an n-ary relation extraction method based on the BERT pre-training model to construct Binding events, in order to capture the semantic information about an event's context and its participants. The experimental results show that our method achieves promising results on the GE11 and GE13 corpora of the BioNLP shared task with F1 scores of 63.14% and 59.40%, respectively. It demonstrates that by significantly improving theperformance of Binding events, the overall performance of the pipelined event extraction approach or even exceeds those of current joint learning methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [302]
标题:  VideoBadminton: A Video Dataset for Badminton Action Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12385
作者:  Qi Li,  Tzu-Chen Chiu,  Hsiang-Wei Huang,  Min-Te Sun,  Wei-Shinn Ku
备注:  
Abstract:In the dynamic and evolving field of computer vision, action recognition has become a key focus, especially with the advent of sophisticated methodologies like Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Convolutional 3D, Transformer, and spatial-temporal feature fusion. These technologies have shown promising results on well-established benchmarks but face unique challenges in real-world applications, particularly in sports analysis, where the precise decomposition of activities and the distinction of subtly different actions are crucial. Existing datasets like UCF101, HMDB51, and Kinetics have offered a diverse range of video data for various scenarios. However, there's an increasing need for fine-grained video datasets that capture detailed categorizations and nuances within broader action categories. In this paper, we introduce the VideoBadminton dataset derived from high-quality badminton footage. Through an exhaustive evaluation of leading methodologies on this dataset, this study aims to advance the field of action recognition, particularly in badminton sports. The introduction of VideoBadminton could not only serve for badminton action recognition but also provide a dataset for recognizing fine-grained actions. The insights gained from these evaluations are expected to catalyze further research in action comprehension, especially within sports contexts.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [303]
标题:  An Aligning and Training Framework for Multimodal Recommendations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12384
作者:  Yifan Liu,  Kangning Zhang,  Xiangyuan Ren,  Yanhua Huang,  Jiarui Jin,  Yingjie Qin,  Ruilong Su,  Ruiwen Xu,  Weinan Zhang
备注:  11 pages
Abstract:With the development of multimedia applications, multimodal recommendations are playing an essential role, as they can leverage rich contexts beyond user interactions. Existing methods mainly regard multimodal information as an auxiliary, using them to help learn ID features; however, there exist semantic gaps among multimodal content features and ID features, for which directly using multimodal information as an auxiliary would lead to misalignment in representations of users and items. In this paper, we first systematically investigate the misalignment issue in multimodal recommendations, and propose a solution named AlignRec. In AlignRec, the recommendation objective is decomposed into three alignments, namely alignment within contents, alignment between content and categorical ID, and alignment between users and items. Each alignment is characterized by a specific objective function and is integrated into our multimodal recommendation framework. To effectively train our AlignRec, we propose starting from pre-training the first alignment to obtain unified multimodal features and subsequently training the following two alignments together with these features as input. As it is essential to analyze whether each multimodal feature helps in training, we design three new classes of metrics to evaluate intermediate performance. Our extensive experiments on three real-world datasets consistently verify the superiority of AlignRec compared to nine baselines. We also find that the multimodal features generated by AlignRec are better than currently used ones, which are to be open-sourced.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [304]
标题:  Explainable AutoML (xAutoML) with adaptive modeling for yield  enhancement in semiconductor smart manufacturing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12381
作者:  Weihong Zhai,  Xiupeng Shi,  Yiik Diew Wong,  Qing Han,  Lisheng Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Enhancing yield is recognized as a paramount driver to reducing production costs in semiconductor smart manufacturing. However, optimizing and ensuring high yield rates is a highly complex and technical challenge, especially while maintaining reliable yield diagnosis and prognosis, and this shall require understanding all the confounding factors in a complex condition. This study proposes a domain-specific explainable automated machine learning technique (termed xAutoML), which autonomously self-learns the optimal models for yield prediction, with an extent of explainability, and also provides insights on key diagnosis factors. The xAutoML incorporates tailored problem-solving functionalities in an auto-optimization pipeline to address the intricacies of semiconductor yield enhancement. Firstly, to capture the key diagnosis factors, knowledge-informed feature extraction coupled with model-agnostic key feature selection is designed. Secondly, combined algorithm selection and hyperparameter tuning with adaptive loss are developed to generate optimized classifiers for better defect prediction, and adaptively evolve in response to shifting data patterns. Moreover, a suite of explainability tools is provided throughout the AutoML pipeline, enhancing user understanding and fostering trust in the automated processes. The proposed xAutoML exhibits superior performance, with domain-specific refined countermeasures, adaptive optimization capabilities, and embedded explainability. Findings exhibit that the proposed xAutoML is a compelling solution for semiconductor yield improvement, defect diagnosis, and related applications.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [305]
标题:  Probabilistic reachable sets of stochastic nonlinear systems with  contextual uncertainties
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12379
作者:  Xun Shen,  Ye Wang,  Kazumune Hashimoto,  Yuhu Wu,  Sebastien Gros
备注:  
Abstract:Validating and controlling safety-critical systems in uncertain environments necessitates probabilistic reachable sets of future state evolutions. The existing methods of computing probabilistic reachable sets normally assume that the uncertainties are independent of the state. However, this assumption falls short in many real-world applications, where uncertainties are state-dependent, referred to as contextual uncertainties. This paper formulates the problem of computing probabilistic reachable sets of stochastic nonlinear states with contextual uncertainties by seeking minimum-volume polynomial sublevel sets with contextual chance constraints. The formulated problem cannot be solved by the existing sample-based approximation method since the existing methods do not consider the conditional probability densities. To address this, we propose a consistent sample approximation of the original problem by leveraging the conditional density estimation and resampling. The obtained approximate problem is a tractable optimization problem. Additionally, we prove the almost uniform convergence of the proposed sample-based approximation, showing that it gives the optimal solution almost consistently with the original ones. Through a numerical example, we evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method against existing approaches, highlighting its capability to significantly reduce the bias inherent in sample-based approximation without considering a conditional probability density.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [306]
标题:  Online Multi-Agent Pickup and Delivery with Task Deadlines
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12377
作者:  Hiroya Makino,  Seigo Ito
备注:  6 pages, 2 figures, submitted to IROS 2024
Abstract:Managing delivery deadlines in automated warehouses and factories is crucial for maintaining customer satisfaction and ensuring seamless production. This study introduces the problem of online multi-agent pickup and delivery with task deadlines (MAPD-D), which is an advanced variant of the online MAPD problem incorporating delivery deadlines. MAPD-D presents a dynamic deadline-driven approach that includes task deadlines, with tasks being added at any time (online), thus challenging conventional MAPD frameworks. To tackle MAPD-D, we propose a novel algorithm named deadline-aware token passing (D-TP). The D-TP algorithm is designed to calculate pickup deadlines and assign tasks while balancing execution cost and deadline proximity. Additionally, we introduce the D-TP with task swaps (D-TPTS) method to further reduce task tardiness, enhancing flexibility and efficiency via task-swapping strategies. Numerical experiments were conducted in simulated warehouse environments to showcase the effectiveness of the proposed methods. Both D-TP and D-TPTS demonstrate significant reductions in task tardiness compared to existing methods, thereby contributing to efficient operations in automated warehouses and factories with delivery deadlines.
Subjects: Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [307]
标题:  MARPF: Multi-Agent and Multi-Rack Path Finding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12376
作者:  Hiroya Makino,  Yoshihiro Ohama,  Seigo Ito
备注:  6 pages, 10 figures, submitted to IROS 2024
Abstract:In environments where many automated guided vehicles (AGVs) operate, planning efficient, collision-free paths is essential. Related research has mainly focused on environments with static passages, resulting in space inefficiency. We define multi-agent and multi-rack path finding (MARPF) as the problem of planning paths for AGVs to convey target racks to their designated locations in environments without passages. In such environments, an AGV without a rack can pass under racks, whereas an AGV with a rack cannot pass under racks to avoid collisions. MARPF entails conveying the target racks without collisions, while the other obstacle racks are positioned without a specific arrangement. AGVs are essential for relocating other racks to prevent any interference with the target racks. We formulated MARPF as an integer linear programming problem in a network flow. To distinguish situations in which an AGV is or is not loading a rack, the proposed method introduces two virtual layers into the network. We optimized the AGVs' movements to move obstacle racks and convey the target racks. The formulation and applicability of the algorithm were validated through numerical experiments. The results indicated that the proposed algorithm addressed issues in environments with dense racks.
Subjects: Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [308]
标题:  Improving Generalizability of Extracting Social Determinants of Health  Using Large Language Models through Prompt-tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12374
作者:  Cheng Peng,  Zehao Yu,  Kaleb E Smith,  Wei-Hsuan Lo-Ciganic,  Jiang Bian,  Yonghui Wu
备注:  
Abstract:The progress in natural language processing (NLP) using large language models (LLMs) has greatly improved patient information extraction from clinical narratives. However, most methods based on the fine-tuning strategy have limited transfer learning ability for cross-domain applications. This study proposed a novel approach that employs a soft prompt-based learning architecture, which introduces trainable prompts to guide LLMs toward desired outputs. We examined two types of LLM architectures, including encoder-only GatorTron and decoder-only GatorTronGPT, and evaluated their performance for the extraction of social determinants of health (SDoH) using a cross-institution dataset from the 2022 n2c2 challenge and a cross-disease dataset from the University of Florida (UF) Health. The results show that decoder-only LLMs with prompt tuning achieved better performance in cross-domain applications. GatorTronGPT achieved the best F1 scores for both datasets, outperforming traditional fine-tuned GatorTron by 8.9% and 21.8% in a cross-institution setting, and 5.5% and 14.5% in a cross-disease setting.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [309]
标题:  RankPrompt: Step-by-Step Comparisons Make Language Models Better  Reasoners
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12373
作者:  Chi Hu,  Yuan Ge,  Xiangnan Ma,  Hang Cao,  Qiang Li,  Yonghua Yang,  Tong Xiao,  Jingbo Zhu
备注:  LREC-Coling 2024 Long Paper
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved impressive performance across various reasoning tasks. However, even state-of-the-art LLMs such as ChatGPT are prone to logical errors during their reasoning processes. Existing solutions, which include deploying task-specific verifiers or voting over multiple reasoning paths, either require extensive human annotations or fail in scenarios with inconsistent responses. To address these challenges, we introduce RankPrompt, a new prompting method that enables LLMs to self-rank their responses without additional resources. RankPrompt breaks down the ranking problem into a series of comparisons among diverse responses, leveraging the inherent capabilities of LLMs to generate chains of comparison as contextual exemplars. Our experiments across 11 arithmetic and commonsense reasoning tasks show that RankPrompt significantly enhances the reasoning performance of ChatGPT and GPT-4, with improvements of up to 13\%. RankPrompt also excels in LLM-based automatic evaluations for open-ended generation, aligning with human preferences 74\% of the time in the AlpacaEval set. Moreover, RankPrompt demonstrates robustness against variations in the orderings and consistencies of responses.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [310]
标题:  Learning Transferable Time Series Classifier with Cross-Domain  Pre-training from Language Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12372
作者:  Mingyue Cheng,  Xiaoyu Tao,  Qi Liu,  Hao Zhang,  Yiheng Chen,  Chenyi Lei
备注:  
Abstract:Advancements in self-supervised pre-training (SSL) have significantly advanced the field of learning transferable time series representations, which can be very useful in enhancing the downstream task. Despite being effective, most existing works struggle to achieve cross-domain SSL pre-training, missing valuable opportunities to integrate patterns and features from different domains. The main challenge lies in the significant differences in the characteristics of time-series data across different domains, such as variations in the number of channels and temporal resolution scales. To address this challenge, we propose CrossTimeNet, a novel cross-domain SSL learning framework to learn transferable knowledge from various domains to largely benefit the target downstream task. One of the key characteristics of CrossTimeNet is the newly designed time series tokenization module, which could effectively convert the raw time series into a sequence of discrete tokens based on a reconstruction optimization process. Besides, we highlight that predicting a high proportion of corrupted tokens can be very helpful for extracting informative patterns across different domains during SSL pre-training, which has been largely overlooked in past years. Furthermore, unlike previous works, our work treats the pre-training language model (PLM) as the initialization of the encoder network, investigating the feasibility of transferring the knowledge learned by the PLM to the time series area. Through these efforts, the path to cross-domain pre-training of a generic time series model can be effectively paved. We conduct extensive experiments in a real-world scenario across various time series classification domains. The experimental results clearly confirm CrossTimeNet's superior performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [311]
标题:  Advancing Time Series Classification with Multimodal Language Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12371
作者:  Mingyue Cheng,  Yiheng Chen,  Qi Liu,  Zhiding Liu,  Yucong Luo
备注:  
Abstract:For the advancements of time series classification, scrutinizing previous studies, most existing methods adopt a common learning-to-classify paradigm - a time series classifier model tries to learn the relation between sequence inputs and target label encoded by one-hot distribution. Although effective, this paradigm conceals two inherent limitations: (1) encoding target categories with one-hot distribution fails to reflect the comparability and similarity between labels, and (2) it is very difficult to learn transferable model across domains, which greatly hinder the development of universal serving paradigm. In this work, we propose InstructTime, a novel attempt to reshape time series classification as a learning-to-generate paradigm. Relying on the powerful generative capacity of the pre-trained language model, the core idea is to formulate the classification of time series as a multimodal understanding task, in which both task-specific instructions and raw time series are treated as multimodal inputs while the label information is represented by texts. To accomplish this goal, three distinct designs are developed in the InstructTime. Firstly, a time series discretization module is designed to convert continuous time series into a sequence of hard tokens to solve the inconsistency issue across modal inputs. To solve the modality representation gap issue, for one thing, we introduce an alignment projected layer before feeding the transformed token of time series into language models. For another, we highlight the necessity of auto-regressive pre-training across domains, which can facilitate the transferability of the language model and boost the generalization performance. Extensive experiments are conducted over benchmark datasets, whose results uncover the superior performance of InstructTime and the potential for a universal foundation model in time series classification.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [312]
标题:  XPose: eXplainable Human Pose Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12370
作者:  Luyu Qiu,  Jianing Li,  Lei Wen,  Chi Su,  Fei Hao,  Chen Jason Zhang,  Lei Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Current approaches in pose estimation primarily concentrate on enhancing model architectures, often overlooking the importance of comprehensively understanding the rationale behind model decisions. In this paper, we propose XPose, a novel framework that incorporates Explainable AI (XAI) principles into pose estimation. This integration aims to elucidate the individual contribution of each keypoint to final prediction, thereby elevating the model's transparency and interpretability. Conventional XAI techniques have predominantly addressed tasks with single-target tasks like classification. Additionally, the application of Shapley value, a common measure in XAI, to pose estimation has been hindered by prohibitive computational demands. To address these challenges, this work introduces an innovative concept called Group Shapley Value (GSV). This approach strategically organizes keypoints into clusters based on their interdependencies. Within these clusters, GSV meticulously calculates Shapley value for keypoints, while for inter-cluster keypoints, it opts for a more holistic group-level valuation. This dual-level computation framework meticulously assesses keypoint contributions to the final outcome, optimizing computational efficiency. Building on the insights into keypoint interactions, we devise a novel data augmentation technique known as Group-based Keypoint Removal (GKR). This method ingeniously removes individual keypoints during training phases, deliberately preserving those with strong mutual connections, thereby refining the model's predictive prowess for non-visible keypoints. The empirical validation of GKR across a spectrum of standard approaches attests to its efficacy. GKR's success demonstrates how using Explainable AI (XAI) can directly enhance pose estimation models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [313]
标题:  Characteristic AI Agents via Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12368
作者:  Xi Wang,  Hongliang Dai,  Shen Gao,  Piji Li
备注:  COLING 2024,The benchmark is available at: this https URL
Abstract:The advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to significant enhancements in the performance of chatbot systems. Many researchers have dedicated their efforts to the development of bringing characteristics to chatbots. While there have been commercial products for developing role-driven chatbots using LLMs, it is worth noting that academic research in this area remains relatively scarce. Our research focuses on investigating the performance of LLMs in constructing Characteristic AI Agents by simulating real-life individuals across different settings. Current investigations have primarily focused on act on roles with simple profiles. In response to this research gap, we create a benchmark for the characteristic AI agents task, including dataset, techniques, and evaluation metrics. A dataset called ``Character100'' is built for this benchmark, comprising the most-visited people on Wikipedia for language models to role-play. With the constructed dataset, we conduct comprehensive assessment of LLMs across various settings. In addition, we devise a set of automatic metrics for quantitative performance evaluation. The experimental results underscore the potential directions for further improvement in the capabilities of LLMs in constructing characteristic AI agents. The benchmark is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [314]
标题:  U-Net Kalman Filter (UNetKF): An Example of Machine Learning-assisted  Ensemble Data Assimilation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12366
作者:  Feiyu Lu
备注:  
Abstract:Machine learning techniques have seen a tremendous rise in popularity in weather and climate sciences. Data assimilation (DA), which combines observations and numerical models, has great potential to incorporate machine learning and artificial intelligence (ML/AI) techniques. In this paper, we use U-Net, a type of convolutional neutral network (CNN), to predict the localized ensemble covariances for the Ensemble Kalman Filter (EnKF) algorithm. Using a 2-layer quasi-geostrophic model, U-Nets are trained using data from EnKF DA experiments. The trained U-Nets are then used to predict the flow-dependent localized error covariance matrices in U-Net Kalman Filter (UNetKF) experiments, which are compared to traditional 3-dimensional variational (3DVar), ensemble 3DVar (En3DVar) and EnKF methods. The performance of UNetKF can match or exceed that of 3DVar, En3DVar or EnKF. We also demonstrate that trained U-Nets can be transferred to a higher-resolution model for UNetKF implementation, which again performs competitively to 3DVar and EnKF, particularly for small ensemble sizes.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph)

**编号**: [315]
标题:  GaussianFlow: Splatting Gaussian Dynamics for 4D Content Creation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12365
作者:  Quankai Gao,  Qiangeng Xu,  Zhe Cao,  Ben Mildenhall,  Wenchao Ma,  Le Chen,  Danhang Tang,  Ulrich Neumann
备注:  
Abstract:Creating 4D fields of Gaussian Splatting from images or videos is a challenging task due to its under-constrained nature. While the optimization can draw photometric reference from the input videos or be regulated by generative models, directly supervising Gaussian motions remains underexplored. In this paper, we introduce a novel concept, Gaussian flow, which connects the dynamics of 3D Gaussians and pixel velocities between consecutive frames. The Gaussian flow can be efficiently obtained by splatting Gaussian dynamics into the image space. This differentiable process enables direct dynamic supervision from optical flow. Our method significantly benefits 4D dynamic content generation and 4D novel view synthesis with Gaussian Splatting, especially for contents with rich motions that are hard to be handled by existing methods. The common color drifting issue that happens in 4D generation is also resolved with improved Guassian dynamics. Superior visual quality on extensive experiments demonstrates our method's effectiveness. Quantitative and qualitative evaluations show that our method achieves state-of-the-art results on both tasks of 4D generation and 4D novel view synthesis. Project page: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [316]
标题:  Class and Region-Adaptive Constraints for Network Calibration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12364
作者:  Balamurali Murugesan,  Julio Silva-Rodriguez,  Ismail Ben Ayed,  Jose Dolz
备注:  Under review
Abstract:In this work, we present a novel approach to calibrate segmentation networks that considers the inherent challenges posed by different categories and object regions. In particular, we present a formulation that integrates class and region-wise constraints into the learning objective, with multiple penalty weights to account for class and region differences. Finding the optimal penalty weights manually, however, might be unfeasible, and potentially hinder the optimization process. To overcome this limitation, we propose an approach based on Class and Region-Adaptive constraints (CRaC), which allows to learn the class and region-wise penalty weights during training. CRaC is based on a general Augmented Lagrangian method, a well-established technique in constrained optimization. Experimental results on two popular segmentation benchmarks, and two well-known segmentation networks, demonstrate the superiority of CRaC compared to existing approaches. The code is available at: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [317]
标题:  E-DoH: Elegantly Detecting the Depths of Open DoH Service on the  Internet
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12363
作者:  Cong Dong,  Jiahai Yang,  Yun Li,  Yue Wu,  Yufan Chen,  Chenglong Li,  Haoran Jiao,  Xia Yin,  Yuling Liu
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, DNS over Encrypted (DoE) methods have been regarded as a novel trend within the realm of the DNS ecosystem. In these DoE methods, DNS over HTTPS (DoH) provides encryption to protect data confidentiality while providing better obfuscation to avoid censorship by multiplexing port 443 with web services. This development introduced certain inconveniences in discovering publicly available DoH services. In this paper, we propose the E-DoH method for elegant and efficient DoH service detection. First, we optimized the probing mechanism to enable a single DoH connection to accomplish multiple tasks including service discovery, correctness validation and dependency construction. Second, we propose an efficient DoH detection tool. This tool can enhance probing efficiency while significantly reduce the required traffic volume. Third, based on the above optimization methods, we conducted an exploration of the IPv4 space and performed an in-depth analysis of DoH based on the collected information. Through experiments, our approach demonstrates a remarkable 80% improvement in time efficiency, and only requires 4%-20% traffic volume to complete the detection task. In wild detection, our approach discovered 46k DoH services, which nearly doubles the number discovered by the state-of-the-art. Based on the collected data, we present several intriguing conclusions about the current DoH service ecosystem.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [318]
标题:  DMAD: Dual Memory Bank for Real-World Anomaly Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12362
作者:  Jianlong Hu,  Xu Chen,  Zhenye Gan,  Jinlong Peng,  Shengchuan Zhang,  Jiangning Zhang,  Yabiao Wang,  Chengjie Wang,  Liujuan Cao,  Rongrong Ji
备注:  
Abstract:Training a unified model is considered to be more suitable for practical industrial anomaly detection scenarios due to its generalization ability and storage efficiency. However, this multi-class setting, which exclusively uses normal data, overlooks the few but important accessible annotated anomalies in the real world. To address the challenge of real-world anomaly detection, we propose a new framework named Dual Memory bank enhanced representation learning for Anomaly Detection (DMAD). This framework handles both unsupervised and semi-supervised scenarios in a unified (multi-class) setting. DMAD employs a dual memory bank to calculate feature distance and feature attention between normal and abnormal patterns, thereby encapsulating knowledge about normal and abnormal instances. This knowledge is then used to construct an enhanced representation for anomaly score learning. We evaluated DMAD on the MVTec-AD and VisA datasets. The results show that DMAD surpasses current state-of-the-art methods, highlighting DMAD's capability in handling the complexities of real-world anomaly detection scenarios.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [319]
标题:  MoodSmith: Enabling Mood-Consistent Multimedia for AI-Generated Advocacy  Campaigns
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12356
作者:  Samia Menon,  Sitong Wang,  Lydia Chilton
备注:  8 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:Emotion is vital to information and message processing, playing a key role in attitude formation. Consequently, creating a mood that evokes an emotional response is essential to any compelling piece of outreach communication. Many nonprofits and charities, despite having established messages, face challenges in creating advocacy campaign videos for social media. It requires significant creative and cognitive efforts to ensure that videos achieve the desired mood across multiple dimensions: script, visuals, and audio. We introduce MoodSmith, an AI-powered system that helps users explore mood possibilities for their message and create advocacy campaigns that are mood-consistent across dimensions. To achieve this, MoodSmith uses emotive language and plotlines for scripts, artistic style and color palette for visuals, and positivity and energy for audio. Our studies show that MoodSmith can effectively achieve a variety of moods, and the produced videos are consistent across media dimensions.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [320]
标题:  Sim2Real in Reconstructive Spectroscopy: Deep Learning with Augmented  Device-Informed Data Simulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12354
作者:  Jiyi Chen,  Pengyu Li,  Yutong Wang,  Pei-Cheng Ku,  Qing Qu
备注:  
Abstract:This work proposes a deep learning (DL)-based framework, namely Sim2Real, for spectral signal reconstruction in reconstructive spectroscopy, focusing on efficient data sampling and fast inference time. The work focuses on the challenge of reconstructing real-world spectral signals under the extreme setting where only device-informed simulated data are available for training. Such device-informed simulated data are much easier to collect than real-world data but exhibit large distribution shifts from their real-world counterparts. To leverage such simulated data effectively, a hierarchical data augmentation strategy is introduced to mitigate the adverse effects of this domain shift, and a corresponding neural network for the spectral signal reconstruction with our augmented data is designed. Experiments using a real dataset measured from our spectrometer device demonstrate that Sim2Real achieves significant speed-up during the inference while attaining on-par performance with the state-of-the-art optimization-based methods.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [321]
标题:  Friendly Sharpness-Aware Minimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12350
作者:  Tao Li,  Pan Zhou,  Zhengbao He,  Xinwen Cheng,  Xiaolin Huang
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Sharpness-Aware Minimization (SAM) has been instrumental in improving deep neural network training by minimizing both training loss and loss sharpness. Despite the practical success, the mechanisms behind SAM's generalization enhancements remain elusive, limiting its progress in deep learning optimization. In this work, we investigate SAM's core components for generalization improvement and introduce "Friendly-SAM" (F-SAM) to further enhance SAM's generalization. Our investigation reveals the key role of batch-specific stochastic gradient noise within the adversarial perturbation, i.e., the current minibatch gradient, which significantly influences SAM's generalization performance. By decomposing the adversarial perturbation in SAM into full gradient and stochastic gradient noise components, we discover that relying solely on the full gradient component degrades generalization while excluding it leads to improved performance. The possible reason lies in the full gradient component's increase in sharpness loss for the entire dataset, creating inconsistencies with the subsequent sharpness minimization step solely on the current minibatch data. Inspired by these insights, F-SAM aims to mitigate the negative effects of the full gradient component. It removes the full gradient estimated by an exponentially moving average (EMA) of historical stochastic gradients, and then leverages stochastic gradient noise for improved generalization. Moreover, we provide theoretical validation for the EMA approximation and prove the convergence of F-SAM on non-convex problems. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior generalization performance and robustness of F-SAM over vanilla SAM. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [322]
标题:  Shortest Trajectory of a Dubins Vehicle with a Controllable Laser
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12346
作者:  Shivam Bajaj,  Bhargav Jha,  Shaunak D. Bopardikar,  Alexander Von Moll,  David W. Casbeer
备注:  
Abstract:We formulate a novel planar motion planning problem for a Dubins-Laser system that consists of a Dubins vehicle with an attached controllable laser. The vehicle moves with unit speed and the laser, having a finite range, can rotate in a clockwise or anti-clockwise direction with a bounded angular rate. From an arbitrary initial position and orientation, the objective is to steer the system so that a given static target is within the range of the laser and the laser is oriented at it in minimum time. We characterize multiple properties of the optimal trajectory and establish that the optimal trajectory for the Dubins-laser system is one out of a total of 16 candidates. Finally, we provide numerical insights that illustrate the properties characterized in this work.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [323]
标题:  Performance Portable Monte Carlo Particle Transport on Intel, NVIDIA,  and AMD GPUs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12345
作者:  John Tramm,  Paul Romano,  Patrick Shriwise,  Amanda Lund,  Johannes Doerfert,  Patrick Steinbrecher,  Andrew Siegel,  Gavin Ridley
备注:  
Abstract:OpenMC is an open source Monte Carlo neutral particle transport application that has recently been ported to GPU using the OpenMP target offloading model. We examine the performance of OpenMC at scale on the Frontier, Polaris, and Aurora supercomputers, demonstrating that performance portability has been achieved by OpenMC across all three major GPU vendors (AMD, NVIDIA, and Intel). OpenMC's GPU performance is compared to both the traditional CPU-based version of OpenMC as well as several other state-of-the-art CPU-based Monte Carlo particle transport applications. We also provide historical context by analyzing OpenMC's performance on several legacy GPU and CPU architectures. This work includes some of the first published results for a scientific simulation application at scale on a supercomputer featuring Intel's Max series "Ponte Vecchio" GPUs. It is also one of the first demonstrations of a large scientific production application using the OpenMP target offloading model to achieve high performance on all three major GPU platforms.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [324]
标题:  Human Factors in Space Exploration: Opportunities for International and  Interdisciplinary Collaboration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12344
作者:  Wiesław Kopeć,  Grzegorz Pochwatko,  Monika Kornacka,  Wiktor Stawski,  Maciej Grzeszczuk,  Kinga Skorupska,  Barbara Karpowicz,  Rafał Masłyk,  Pavlo Zinevych,  Stanisław Knapiński,  Steven Barnes,  Cezary Biele
备注:  13 pages including bibliography, 4 figures. To be published by Springer as MIDI 2023 Conference proceedings
Abstract:As humanity pushes the boundaries of space exploration, human factors research becomes more important. Human factors encompass a broad spectrum of psychological, physiological, and ergonomic factors that affect human performance, well-being, and safety in the unique and challenging space environment. This panel explores the multifaceted field of human factors in space exploration and highlights the opportunities that lie in fostering international and interdisciplinary cooperation. This exploration delves into the current state of research on human factors in space missions, addressing the physiological and psychological challenges astronauts face during long space flights. It emphasizes the importance of interdisciplinary collaboration, combining knowledge from fields such as psychology, medicine, engineering, and design to address the complex interaction of factors affecting human performance and adaptation to the space environment
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [325]
标题:  Glanceable Data Visualizations for Older Adults: Establishing Thresholds  and Examining Disparities Between Age Groups
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12343
作者:  Zack While,  Tanja Blascheck,  Yujie Gong,  Petra Isenberg,  Ali Sarvghad
备注:  17 pages, 10 figures, accepted to CHI '24
Abstract:We present results of a replication study on smartwatch visualizations with adults aged 65 and older. The older adult population is rising globally, coinciding with their increasing interest in using small wearable devices, such as smartwatches, to track and view data. Smartwatches, however, pose challenges to this population: fonts and visualizations are often small and meant to be seen at a glance. How concise design on smartwatches interacts with aging-related changes in perception and cognition, however, is not well understood. We replicate a study that investigated how visualization type and number of data points affect glanceable perception. We observe strong evidence of differences for participants aged 75 and older, sparking interesting questions regarding the study of visualization and older adults. We discuss first steps toward better understanding and supporting an older population of smartwatch wearers and reflect on our experiences working with this population. Supplementary materials are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [326]
标题:  A fast low-rank inversion algorithm of dielectric matrix in GW  approximation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12340
作者:  Zhengbang Zhou,  Huanhuan Ma,  Wentiao Wu,  Weiguo Gao,  Jinlong Yang,  Meiyue Shao,  Wei Hu
备注:  
Abstract:The dielectric response function and its inverse are crucial physical quantities in materials science. We propose an accurate and efficient strategy to invert the dielectric function matrix. The GW approximation, a powerful approach to accurately describe many-body excited states, is taken as an application to demonstrate accuracy and efficiency. We incorporate the interpolative separable density fitting (ISDF) algorithm with Sherman--Morrison--Woodbury (SMW) formula to accelerate the inversion process by exploiting low-rank properties of dielectric function in plane-wave GW calculations. Our ISDF--SMW strategy produces accurate quasiparticle energies with $O(N_{\mathrm{r}}N_{\mathrm{e}}^2)$ computational cost $(N_{\mathrm{e}}$ is the number of electrons and $N_{\mathrm{r}}=100$--$1000N_{\mathrm{e}}$ is the number of grid points) with negligible small error of $0.03$~eV for both complex molecules and solids. This new strategy for inverting the dielectric matrix can be \(50\times\) faster than the current state-of-the-art implementation in BerkeleyGW, resulting in two orders of magnitude speedup for total GW calculations.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [327]
标题:  Entity6K: A Large Open-Domain Evaluation Dataset for Real-World Entity  Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12339
作者:  Jielin Qiu,  William Han,  Winfred Wang,  Zhengyuan Yang,  Linjie Li,  Jianfeng Wang,  Christos Faloutsos,  Lei Li,  Lijuan Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Open-domain real-world entity recognition is essential yet challenging, involving identifying various entities in diverse environments. The lack of a suitable evaluation dataset has been a major obstacle in this field due to the vast number of entities and the extensive human effort required for data curation. We introduce Entity6K, a comprehensive dataset for real-world entity recognition, featuring 5,700 entities across 26 categories, each supported by 5 human-verified images with annotations. Entity6K offers a diverse range of entity names and categorizations, addressing a gap in existing datasets. We conducted benchmarks with existing models on tasks like image captioning, object detection, zero-shot classification, and dense captioning to demonstrate Entity6K's effectiveness in evaluating models' entity recognition capabilities. We believe Entity6K will be a valuable resource for advancing accurate entity recognition in open-domain settings.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [328]
标题:  Temporally-Consistent Koopman Autoencoders for Forecasting Dynamical  Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12335
作者:  Indranil Nayak,  Debdipta Goswami,  Mrinal Kumar,  Fernando Teixeira
备注:  
Abstract:Absence of sufficiently high-quality data often poses a key challenge in data-driven modeling of high-dimensional spatio-temporal dynamical systems. Koopman Autoencoders (KAEs) harness the expressivity of deep neural networks (DNNs), the dimension reduction capabilities of autoencoders, and the spectral properties of the Koopman operator to learn a reduced-order feature space with simpler, linear dynamics. However, the effectiveness of KAEs is hindered by limited and noisy training datasets, leading to poor generalizability. To address this, we introduce the Temporally-Consistent Koopman Autoencoder (tcKAE), designed to generate accurate long-term predictions even with constrained and noisy training data. This is achieved through a consistency regularization term that enforces prediction coherence across different time steps, thus enhancing the robustness and generalizability of tcKAE over existing models. We provide analytical justification for this approach based on Koopman spectral theory and empirically demonstrate tcKAE's superior performance over state-of-the-art KAE models across a variety of test cases, including simple pendulum oscillations, kinetic plasmas, fluid flows, and sea surface temperature data.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [329]
标题:  Structural Validation Of Synthetic Power Distribution Networks Using The  Multiscale Flat Norm
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12334
作者:  Kostiantyn Lyman,  Rounak Meyur,  Bala Krishnamoorthy,  Mahantesh Halappanavar
备注:  A shorter version (with subset of results) appeared in ICCS 2023
Abstract:We study the problem of comparing a pair of geometric networks that may not be similarly defined, i.e., when they do not have one-to-one correspondences between their nodes and edges. Our motivating application is to compare power distribution networks of a region. Due to the lack of openly available power network datasets, researchers synthesize realistic networks resembling their actual counterparts. But the synthetic digital twins may vary significantly from one another and from actual networks due to varying underlying assumptions and approaches. Hence the user wants to evaluate the quality of networks in terms of their structural similarity to actual power networks. But the lack of correspondence between the networks renders most standard approaches, e.g., subgraph isomorphism and edit distance, unsuitable. We propose an approach based on the multiscale flat norm, a notion of distance between objects defined in the field of geometric measure theory, to compute the distance between a pair of planar geometric networks. Using a triangulation of the domain containing the input networks, the flat norm distance between two networks at a given scale can be computed by solving a linear program. In addition, this computation automatically identifies the 2D regions (patches) that capture where the two networks are different. We demonstrate through 2D examples that the flat norm distance can capture the variations of inputs more accurately than the commonly used Hausdorff distance. As a notion of stability, we also derive upper bounds on the flat norm distance between a simple 1D curve and its perturbed version as a function of the radius of perturbation for a restricted class of perturbations. We demonstrate our approach on a set of actual power networks from a county in the USA.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Algebraic Topology (math.AT); Differential Geometry (math.DG)

**编号**: [330]
标题:  FedFisher: Leveraging Fisher Information for One-Shot Federated Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12329
作者:  Divyansh Jhunjhunwala,  Shiqiang Wang,  Gauri Joshi
备注:  Accepted to AISTATS 2024
Abstract:Standard federated learning (FL) algorithms typically require multiple rounds of communication between the server and the clients, which has several drawbacks, including requiring constant network connectivity, repeated investment of computational resources, and susceptibility to privacy attacks. One-Shot FL is a new paradigm that aims to address this challenge by enabling the server to train a global model in a single round of communication. In this work, we present FedFisher, a novel algorithm for one-shot FL that makes use of Fisher information matrices computed on local client models, motivated by a Bayesian perspective of FL. First, we theoretically analyze FedFisher for two-layer over-parameterized ReLU neural networks and show that the error of our one-shot FedFisher global model becomes vanishingly small as the width of the neural networks and amount of local training at clients increases. Next, we propose practical variants of FedFisher using the diagonal Fisher and K-FAC approximation for the full Fisher and highlight their communication and compute efficiency for FL. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on various datasets, which show that these variants of FedFisher consistently improve over competing baselines.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [331]
标题:  Methods for Generating Drift in Text Streams
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12328
作者:  Cristiano Mesquita Garcia,  Alessandro Lameiras Koerich,  Alceu de Souza Britto Jr,  Jean Paul Barddal
备注:  
Abstract:Systems and individuals produce data continuously. On the Internet, people share their knowledge, sentiments, and opinions, provide reviews about services and products, and so on. Automatically learning from these textual data can provide insights to organizations and institutions, thus preventing financial impacts, for example. To learn from textual data over time, the machine learning system must account for concept drift. Concept drift is a frequent phenomenon in real-world datasets and corresponds to changes in data distribution over time. For instance, a concept drift occurs when sentiments change or a word's meaning is adjusted over time. Although concept drift is frequent in real-world applications, benchmark datasets with labeled drifts are rare in the literature. To bridge this gap, this paper provides four textual drift generation methods to ease the production of datasets with labeled drifts. These methods were applied to Yelp and Airbnb datasets and tested using incremental classifiers respecting the stream mining paradigm to evaluate their ability to recover from the drifts. Results show that all methods have their performance degraded right after the drifts, and the incremental SVM is the fastest to run and recover the previous performance levels regarding accuracy and Macro F1-Score.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [332]
标题:  GT-Rain Single Image Deraining Challenge Report
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12327
作者:  Howard Zhang,  Yunhao Ba,  Ethan Yang,  Rishi Upadhyay,  Alex Wong,  Achuta Kadambi,  Yun Guo,  Xueyao Xiao,  Xiaoxiong Wang,  Yi Li,  Yi Chang,  Luxin Yan,  Chaochao Zheng,  Luping Wang,  Bin Liu,  Sunder Ali Khowaja,  Jiseok Yoon,  Ik-Hyun Lee,  Zhao Zhang,  Yanyan Wei,  Jiahuan Ren,  Suiyi Zhao,  Huan Zheng
备注:  
Abstract:This report reviews the results of the GT-Rain challenge on single image deraining at the UG2+ workshop at CVPR 2023. The aim of this competition is to study the rainy weather phenomenon in real world scenarios, provide a novel real world rainy image dataset, and to spark innovative ideas that will further the development of single image deraining methods on real images. Submissions were trained on the GT-Rain dataset and evaluated on an extension of the dataset consisting of 15 additional scenes. Scenes in GT-Rain are comprised of real rainy image and ground truth image captured moments after the rain had stopped. 275 participants were registered in the challenge and 55 competed in the final testing phase.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [333]
标题:  Removing Undesirable Concepts in Text-to-Image Generative Models with  Learnable Prompts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12326
作者:  Anh Bui,  Khanh Doan,  Trung Le,  Paul Montague,  Tamas Abraham,  Dinh Phung
备注:  
Abstract:Generative models have demonstrated remarkable potential in generating visually impressive content from textual descriptions. However, training these models on unfiltered internet data poses the risk of learning and subsequently propagating undesirable concepts, such as copyrighted or unethical content. In this paper, we propose a novel method to remove undesirable concepts from text-to-image generative models by incorporating a learnable prompt into the cross-attention module. This learnable prompt acts as additional memory to transfer the knowledge of undesirable concepts into it and reduce the dependency of these concepts on the model parameters and corresponding textual inputs. Because of this knowledge transfer into the prompt, erasing these undesirable concepts is more stable and has minimal negative impact on other concepts. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on the Stable Diffusion model, showcasing its superiority over state-of-the-art erasure methods in terms of removing undesirable content while preserving other unrelated elements.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [334]
标题:  Towards a Theory of Pragmatic Information
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12324
作者:  Edward D. Weinberger
备注:  15 pages, no figures
Abstract:The subject generally known as ``information theory'' has nothing to say about how much meaning is conveyed by the information. Accordingly, we fill this gap with the first rigorously justifiable, quantitative definition of ``pragmatic information'' as the amount of information that becomes meaningful because it is used in making a decision. We posit that such information updates a ``state of the world'' random variable, $\omega$, that informs the decision. The pragmatic information of a single message is then defined as the Kulbach-Leibler divergence between the a priori and updated probability distributions of $\omega$, and the pragmatic information of a message ensemble is defined as the expected value of the pragmatic information values of the ensemble's component messages. We justify these definitions by showing, first, that the pragmatic information of a single message is the expected difference between the shortest binary encoding of $\omega$ under the {\it a priori} and updated probability distributions, and, second, that the average of the pragmatic values of individual messages, when sampled a large number of times from the ensemble, approaches its expected value. The resulting pragmatic information formulas have many hoped-for properties, such as non-negativity and additivity for independent decisions and ``pragmatically independent'' messages. We also sketch two applications of these formulas: The first is the single play of a slot machine, a.k.a. a ``one armed bandit'', with an unknown probability of payout; the second being the reformulation of the efficient market hypothesis of financial economics as the claim that the pragmatic information content of all available data about a given security is zero.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [335]
标题:  Enhanced Detection of Transdermal Alcohol Levels Using Hyperdimensional  Computing on Embedded Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12323
作者:  Manuel E. Segura,  Pere Verges,  Justin Tian Jin Chen,  Ramesh Arangott,  Angela Kristine Garcia,  Laura Garcia Reynoso,  Alexandru Nicolau,  Tony Givargis,  Sergio Gago-Masague
备注:  
Abstract:Alcohol consumption has a significant impact on individuals' health, with even more pronounced consequences when consumption becomes excessive. One approach to promoting healthier drinking habits is implementing just-in-time interventions, where timely notifications indicating intoxication are sent during heavy drinking episodes. However, the complexity or invasiveness of an intervention mechanism may deter an individual from using them in practice. Previous research tackled this challenge using collected motion data and conventional Machine Learning (ML) algorithms to classify heavy drinking episodes, but with impractical accuracy and computational efficiency for mobile devices. Consequently, we have elected to use Hyperdimensional Computing (HDC) to design a just-in-time intervention approach that is practical for smartphones, smart wearables, and IoT deployment. HDC is a framework that has proven results in processing real-time sensor data efficiently. This approach offers several advantages, including low latency, minimal power consumption, and high parallelism. We explore various HDC encoding designs and combine them with various HDC learning models to create an optimal and feasible approach for mobile devices. Our findings indicate an accuracy rate of 89\%, which represents a substantial 12\% improvement over the current state-of-the-art.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [336]
标题:  Explainable agency: human preferences for simple or complex explanations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12321
作者:  Michelle Blom,  Ronal Singh,  Tim Miller,  Liz Sonenberg,  Kerry Trentelman,  Adam Saulwick
备注:  
Abstract:Research in cognitive psychology has established that whether people prefer simpler explanations to complex ones is context dependent, but the question of `simple vs. complex' becomes critical when an artificial agent seeks to explain its decisions or predictions to humans. We present a model for abstracting causal reasoning chains for the purpose of explanation. This model uses a set of rules to progressively abstract different types of causal information in causal proof traces. We perform online studies using 123 Amazon MTurk participants and with five industry experts over two domains: maritime patrol and weather prediction. We found participants' satisfaction with generated explanations was based on the consistency of relationships among the causes (coherence) that explain an event; and that the important question is not whether people prefer simple or complex explanations, but what types of causal information are relevant to individuals in specific contexts.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [337]
标题:  Approximated Likelihood Ratio: A Forward-Only and Parallel Framework for  Boosting Neural Network Training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12320
作者:  Zeliang Zhang,  Jinyang Jiang,  Zhuo Liu,  Susan Liang,  Yijie Peng,  Chenliang Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Efficient and biologically plausible alternatives to backpropagation in neural network training remain a challenge due to issues such as high computational complexity and additional assumptions about neural networks, which limit scalability to deeper networks. The likelihood ratio method offers a promising gradient estimation strategy but is constrained by significant memory consumption, especially when deploying multiple copies of data to reduce estimation variance. In this paper, we introduce an approximation technique for the likelihood ratio (LR) method to alleviate computational and memory demands in gradient estimation. By exploiting the natural parallelism during the backward pass using LR, we further provide a high-performance training strategy, which pipelines both the forward and backward pass, to make it more suitable for the computation on specialized hardware. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the approximation technique in neural network training. This work underscores the potential of the likelihood ratio method in achieving high-performance neural network training, suggesting avenues for further exploration.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [338]
标题:  EffiPerception: an Efficient Framework for Various Perception Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12317
作者:  Xinhao Xiang,  Simon Dräger,  Jiawei Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The accuracy-speed-memory trade-off is always the priority to consider for several computer vision perception tasks. Previous methods mainly focus on a single or small couple of these tasks, such as creating effective data augmentation, feature extractor, learning strategies, etc. These approaches, however, could be inherently task-specific: their proposed model's performance may depend on a specific perception task or a dataset. Targeting to explore common learning patterns and increasing the module robustness, we propose the EffiPerception framework. It could achieve great accuracy-speed performance with relatively low memory cost under several perception tasks: 2D Object Detection, 3D Object Detection, 2D Instance Segmentation, and 3D Point Cloud Segmentation. Overall, the framework consists of three parts: (1) Efficient Feature Extractors, which extract the input features for each modality. (2) Efficient Layers, plug-in plug-out layers that further process the feature representation, aggregating core learned information while pruning noisy proposals. (3) The EffiOptim, an 8-bit optimizer to further cut down the computational cost and facilitate performance stability. Extensive experiments on the KITTI, semantic-KITTI, and COCO datasets revealed that EffiPerception could show great accuracy-speed-memory overall performance increase within the four detection and segmentation tasks, in comparison to earlier, well-respected methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [339]
标题:  OpenEval: Benchmarking Chinese LLMs across Capability, Alignment and  Safety
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12316
作者:  Chuang Liu,  Linhao Yu,  Jiaxuan Li,  Renren Jin,  Yufei Huang,  Ling Shi,  Junhui Zhang,  Xinmeng Ji,  Tingting Cui,  Tao Liu,  Jinwang Song,  Hongying Zan,  Sun Li,  Deyi Xiong
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid development of Chinese large language models (LLMs) poses big challenges for efficient LLM evaluation. While current initiatives have introduced new benchmarks or evaluation platforms for assessing Chinese LLMs, many of these focus primarily on capabilities, usually overlooking potential alignment and safety issues. To address this gap, we introduce OpenEval, an evaluation testbed that benchmarks Chinese LLMs across capability, alignment and safety. For capability assessment, we include 12 benchmark datasets to evaluate Chinese LLMs from 4 sub-dimensions: NLP tasks, disciplinary knowledge, commonsense reasoning and mathematical reasoning. For alignment assessment, OpenEval contains 7 datasets that examines the bias, offensiveness and illegalness in the outputs yielded by Chinese LLMs. To evaluate safety, especially anticipated risks (e.g., power-seeking, self-awareness) of advanced LLMs, we include 6 datasets. In addition to these benchmarks, we have implemented a phased public evaluation and benchmark update strategy to ensure that OpenEval is in line with the development of Chinese LLMs or even able to provide cutting-edge benchmark datasets to guide the development of Chinese LLMs. In our first public evaluation, we have tested a range of Chinese LLMs, spanning from 7B to 72B parameters, including both open-source and proprietary models. Evaluation results indicate that while Chinese LLMs have shown impressive performance in certain tasks, more attention should be directed towards broader aspects such as commonsense reasoning, alignment, and safety.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [340]
标题:  Improving LoRA in Privacy-preserving Federated Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12313
作者:  Youbang Sun,  Zitao Li,  Yaliang Li,  Bolin Ding
备注:  published at ICLR 2024, full paper 17 pages
Abstract:Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) is one of the most popular task-specific parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods on pre-trained language models for its good performance and computational efficiency. LoRA injects a product of two trainable rank decomposition matrices over the top of each frozen pre-trained model module. However, when applied in the setting of privacy-preserving federated learning (FL), LoRA may become unstable due to the following facts: 1) the effects of data heterogeneity and multi-step local updates are non-negligible, 2) additive noise enforced on updating gradients to guarantee differential privacy (DP) can be amplified and 3) the final performance is susceptible to hyper-parameters. A key factor leading to these phenomena is the discordance between jointly optimizing the two low-rank matrices by local clients and separately aggregating them by the central server. Thus, this paper proposes an efficient and effective version of LoRA, Federated Freeze A LoRA (FFA-LoRA), to alleviate these challenges and further halve the communication cost of federated fine-tuning LLMs. The core idea of FFA-LoRA is to fix the randomly initialized non-zero matrices and only fine-tune the zero-initialized matrices. Compared to LoRA, FFA-LoRA is motivated by practical and theoretical benefits in privacy-preserved FL. Our experiments demonstrate that FFA-LoRA provides more consistent performance with better computational efficiency over vanilla LoRA in various FL tasks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [341]
标题:  Prototipo de un Contador Bidireccional Automático de Personas basado  en sensores de visión 3D
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12310
作者:  Benjamín Ojeda-Magaña,  Rubén Ruelas,  José Guadalupe Robledo-Hernández,  Víctor Manuel Rangel-Cobián,  Fernando López Aguilar-Hernández
备注:  8 pages, in Spanish language, 8 figures
Abstract:3D sensors, also known as RGB-D sensors, utilize depth images where each pixel measures the distance from the camera to objects, using principles like structured light or time-of-flight. Advances in artificial vision have led to affordable 3D cameras capable of real-time object detection without object movement, surpassing 2D cameras in information depth. These cameras can identify objects of varying colors and reflectivities and are less affected by lighting changes. The described prototype uses RGB-D sensors for bidirectional people counting in venues, aiding security and surveillance in spaces like stadiums or airports. It determines real-time occupancy and checks against maximum capacity, crucial during emergencies. The system includes a RealSense D415 depth camera and a mini-computer running object detection algorithms to count people and a 2D camera for identity verification. The system supports statistical analysis and uses C++, Python, and PHP with OpenCV for image processing, demonstrating a comprehensive approach to monitoring venue occupancy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [342]
标题:  Reinforcement Learning from Delayed Observations via World Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12309
作者:  Armin Karamzade,  Kyungmin Kim,  Montek Kalsi,  Roy Fox
备注:  
Abstract:In standard Reinforcement Learning settings, agents typically assume immediate feedback about the effects of their actions after taking them. However, in practice, this assumption may not hold true due to physical constraints and can significantly impact the performance of RL algorithms. In this paper, we focus on addressing observation delays in partially observable environments. We propose leveraging world models, which have shown success in integrating past observations and learning dynamics, to handle observation delays. By reducing delayed POMDPs to delayed MDPs with world models, our methods can effectively handle partial observability, where existing approaches achieve sub-optimal performance or even degrade quickly as observability decreases. Experiments suggest that one of our methods can outperform a naive model-based approach by up to %30. Moreover, we evaluate our methods on visual input based delayed environment, for the first time showcasing delay-aware reinforcement learning on visual observations.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [343]
标题:  Gradient-based Fuzzy System Optimisation via Automatic Differentiation  -- FuzzyR as a Use Case
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12308
作者:  Chao Chen,  Christian Wagner,  Jonathan M. Garibaldi
备注:  
Abstract:Since their introduction, fuzzy sets and systems have become an important area of research known for its versatility in modelling, knowledge representation and reasoning, and increasingly its potential within the context explainable AI. While the applications of fuzzy systems are diverse, there has been comparatively little advancement in their design from a machine learning perspective. In other words, while representations such as neural networks have benefited from a boom in learning capability driven by an increase in computational performance in combination with advances in their training mechanisms and available tool, in particular gradient descent, the impact on fuzzy system design has been limited. In this paper, we discuss gradient-descent-based optimisation of fuzzy systems, focussing in particular on automatic differentiation--crucial to neural network learning--with a view to free fuzzy system designers from intricate derivative computations, allowing for more focus on the functional and explainability aspects of their design. As a starting point, we present a use case in FuzzyR which demonstrates how current fuzzy inference system implementations can be adjusted to leverage powerful features of automatic differentiation tools sets, discussing its potential for the future of fuzzy system design.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [344]
标题:  Molecular Classification Using Hyperdimensional Graph Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12307
作者:  Pere Verges,  Igor Nunes,  Mike Heddes,  Tony Givargis,  Alexandru Nicolau
备注:  
Abstract:Our work introduces an innovative approach to graph learning by leveraging Hyperdimensional Computing. Graphs serve as a widely embraced method for conveying information, and their utilization in learning has gained significant attention. This is notable in the field of chemoinformatics, where learning from graph representations plays a pivotal role. An important application within this domain involves the identification of cancerous cells across diverse molecular structures. We propose an HDC-based model that demonstrates comparable Area Under the Curve results when compared to state-of-the-art models like Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) or the Weisfieler-Lehman graph kernel (WL). Moreover, it outperforms previously proposed hyperdimensional computing graph learning methods. Furthermore, it achieves noteworthy speed enhancements, boasting a 40x acceleration in the training phase and a 15x improvement in inference time compared to GNN and WL models. This not only underscores the efficacy of the HDC-based method, but also highlights its potential for expedited and resource-efficient graph learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)

**编号**: [345]
标题:  Semialgebraic Range Stabbing, Ray Shooting, and Intersection Counting in  the Plane
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12303
作者:  Timothy M. Chan,  Pingan Cheng,  Da Wei Zheng
备注:  SOCG 2024
Abstract:Polynomial partitioning techniques have recently led to improved geometric data structures for a variety of fundamental problems related to semialgebraic range searching and intersection searching in 3D and higher dimensions (e.g., see [Agarwal, Aronov, Ezra, and Zahl, SoCG 2019; Ezra and Sharir, SoCG 2021; Agarwal, Aronov, Ezra, Katz, and Sharir, SoCG 2022]). They have also led to improved algorithms for offline versions of semialgebraic range searching in 2D, via lens-cutting [Sharir and Zahl (2017)]. In this paper, we show that these techniques can yield new data structures for a number of other 2D problems even for online queries: 1. Semialgebraic range stabbing. We present a data structure for $n$ semialgebraic ranges in 2D of constant description complexity with $O(n^{3/2+\varepsilon})$ preprocessing time and space, so that we can count the number of ranges containing a query point in $O(n^{1/4+\varepsilon})$ time, for an arbitrarily small constant $\varepsilon>0$. 2. Ray shooting amid algebraic arcs. We present a data structure for $n$ algebraic arcs in 2D of constant description complexity with $O(n^{3/2+\varepsilon})$ preprocessing time and space, so that we can find the first arc hit by a query (straight-line) ray in $O(n^{1/4+\varepsilon})$ time. 3. Intersection counting amid algebraic arcs. We present a data structure for $n$ algebraic arcs in 2D of constant description complexity with $O(n^{3/2+\varepsilon})$ preprocessing time and space, so that we can count the number of intersection points with a query algebraic arc of constant description complexity in $O(n^{1/2+\varepsilon})$ time. In particular, this implies an $O(n^{3/2+\varepsilon})$-time algorithm for counting intersections between two sets of $n$ algebraic arcs in 2D.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [346]
标题:  R3DS: Reality-linked 3D Scenes for Panoramic Scene Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12301
作者:  Qirui Wu,  Sonia Raychaudhuri,  Daniel Ritchie,  Manolis Savva,  Angel X Chang
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce the Reality-linked 3D Scenes (R3DS) dataset of synthetic 3D scenes mirroring the real-world scene arrangements from Matterport3D panoramas. Compared to prior work, R3DS has more complete and densely populated scenes with objects linked to real-world observations in panoramas. R3DS also provides an object support hierarchy, and matching object sets (e.g., same chairs around a dining table) for each scene. Overall, R3DS contains 19K objects represented by 3,784 distinct CAD models from over 100 object categories. We demonstrate the effectiveness of R3DS on the Panoramic Scene Understanding task. We find that: 1) training on R3DS enables better generalization; 2) support relation prediction trained with R3DS improves performance compared to heuristically calculated support; and 3) R3DS offers a challenging benchmark for future work on panoramic scene understanding.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [347]
标题:  Leveraging Large Language Models to Extract Information on Substance Use  Disorder Severity from Clinical Notes: A Zero-shot Learning Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12297
作者:  Maria Mahbub,  Gregory M. Dams,  Sudarshan Srinivasan,  Caitlin Rizy,  Ioana Danciu,  Jodie Trafton,  Kathryn Knight
备注:  10 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
Abstract:Substance use disorder (SUD) poses a major concern due to its detrimental effects on health and society. SUD identification and treatment depend on a variety of factors such as severity, co-determinants (e.g., withdrawal symptoms), and social determinants of health. Existing diagnostic coding systems used by American insurance providers, like the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10), lack granularity for certain diagnoses, but clinicians will add this granularity (as that found within the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders classification or DSM-5) as supplemental unstructured text in clinical notes. Traditional natural language processing (NLP) methods face limitations in accurately parsing such diverse clinical language. Large Language Models (LLMs) offer promise in overcoming these challenges by adapting to diverse language patterns. This study investigates the application of LLMs for extracting severity-related information for various SUD diagnoses from clinical notes. We propose a workflow employing zero-shot learning of LLMs with carefully crafted prompts and post-processing techniques. Through experimentation with Flan-T5, an open-source LLM, we demonstrate its superior recall compared to the rule-based approach. Focusing on 11 categories of SUD diagnoses, we show the effectiveness of LLMs in extracting severity information, contributing to improved risk assessment and treatment planning for SUD patients.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [348]
标题:  5G Cellular Systems Using UAVs, RES, and RISs (PL: Systemy komórkowe  5G wykorzystujące BSP, OZE oraz IPR)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12296
作者:  Adam Samorzewski,  Adrian Kliks
备注:  The scientific paper is written in Polish. The contribution of the paper was presented during the 2023 Radiocommunications and ICT Conference (pl. Konferencja Radiokomunikacji i Teleinformatyki - KRiT 2023) in Cracow, Poland
Abstract:The paper considers energy consumption in 5G cellular networks powered by Renewable Energy Sources (RESs) and equipped with Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces (RISs) and tethered Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), acting as mobile access points. The study was focused on the energy side of the Radio Access Network (RAN) located in the city of Poznań in Poland. The profit associated with the use of renewable energy generators, i.e. photovoltaic panels (PVP) for base stations (BSs) is presented in the form of two factors: the average number of UAV charges (ANUC) to provide continuous access to mobile services for connected user equipment (UE) terminals, and the average reduction in energy consumption (AREC) of the wireless system.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [349]
标题:  A Comparative Investigation of Compositional Syntax and Semantics in  DALL-E 2
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12294
作者:  Elliot Murphy,  Jill de Villiers,  Sofia Lucero Morales
备注:  
Abstract:In this study we compared how well DALL-E 2 visually represented the meaning of linguistic prompts also given to young children in comprehension tests. Sentences representing fundamental components of grammatical knowledge were selected from assessment tests used with several hundred English-speaking children aged 2-7 years for whom we had collected original item-level data. DALL-E 2 was given these prompts five times to generate 20 cartoons per item, for 9 adult judges to score. Results revealed no conditions in which DALL-E 2-generated images that matched the semantic accuracy of children, even at the youngest age (2 years). DALL-E 2 failed to assign the appropriate roles in reversible forms; it failed on negation despite an easier contrastive prompt than the children received; it often assigned the adjective to the wrong noun; it ignored implicit agents in passives. This work points to a clear absence of compositional sentence representations for DALL-E 2.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [350]
标题:  BostonTwin: the Boston Digital Twin for Ray-Tracing in 6G Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12289
作者:  Paolo Testolina,  Michele Polese,  Pedram Johari,  Tommaso Melodia
备注:  7 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables. This paper has been accepted for presentation at ACM Multimedia Systems Conference 2024 (MMSys '24). Copyright ACM 2024. Please cite it as: P.Testolina, M. Polese, P. Johari, and T. Melodia, "BostonTwin: the Boston Digital Twin for Ray-Tracing in 6G Networks," in Proceedings of the ACM Multimedia Systems Conference 2024, ser. MMSys '24. Bari, Italy, Apr. 2024
Abstract:Digital twins are now a staple of wireless networks design and evolution. Creating an accurate digital copy of a real system offers numerous opportunities to study and analyze its performance and issues. It also allows designing and testing new solutions in a risk-free environment, and applying them back to the real system after validation. A candidate technology that will heavily rely on digital twins for design and deployment is 6G, which promises robust and ubiquitous networks for eXtended Reality (XR) and immersive communications solutions. In this paper, we present BostonTwin, a dataset that merges a high-fidelity 3D model of the city of Boston, MA, with the existing geospatial data on cellular base stations deployments, in a ray-tracing-ready format. Thus, BostonTwin enables not only the instantaneous rendering and programmatic access to the building models, but it also allows for an accurate representation of the electromagnetic propagation environment in the real-world city of Boston. The level of detail and accuracy of this characterization is crucial to designing 6G networks that can support the strict requirements of sensitive and high-bandwidth applications, such as XR and immersive communication.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [351]
标题:  FinLlama: Financial Sentiment Classification for Algorithmic Trading  Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12285
作者:  Thanos Konstantinidis,  Giorgos Iacovides,  Mingxue Xu,  Tony G. Constantinides,  Danilo Mandic
备注:  
Abstract:There are multiple sources of financial news online which influence market movements and trader's decisions. This highlights the need for accurate sentiment analysis, in addition to having appropriate algorithmic trading techniques, to arrive at better informed trading decisions. Standard lexicon based sentiment approaches have demonstrated their power in aiding financial decisions. However, they are known to suffer from issues related to context sensitivity and word ordering. Large Language Models (LLMs) can also be used in this context, but they are not finance-specific and tend to require significant computational resources. To facilitate a finance specific LLM framework, we introduce a novel approach based on the Llama 2 7B foundational model, in order to benefit from its generative nature and comprehensive language manipulation. This is achieved by fine-tuning the Llama2 7B model on a small portion of supervised financial sentiment analysis data, so as to jointly handle the complexities of financial lexicon and context, and further equipping it with a neural network based decision mechanism. Such a generator-classifier scheme, referred to as FinLlama, is trained not only to classify the sentiment valence but also quantify its strength, thus offering traders a nuanced insight into financial news articles. Complementing this, the implementation of parameter-efficient fine-tuning through LoRA optimises trainable parameters, thus minimising computational and memory requirements, without sacrificing accuracy. Simulation results demonstrate the ability of the proposed FinLlama to provide a framework for enhanced portfolio management decisions and increased market returns. These results underpin the ability of FinLlama to construct high-return portfolios which exhibit enhanced resilience, even during volatile periods and unpredictable market events.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST); Trading and Market Microstructure (q-fin.TR)

**编号**: [352]
标题:  Energy Consumption in RES-Aware 5G Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12283
作者:  Adam Samorzewski,  Margot Deruyck,  Adrian Kliks
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, the impact of using Renewable Energy Source (RES) generators in next-generation (5G) cellular systems on total power consumption (PC) has been investigated. The paper highlights the gain related to the use of photovoltaic (PV) panels and wind turbines (WTs) in the form of two factors - the average extension of battery lifetime (AEBL) powering a single network cell and the average reduction in energy consumption (AREC) within the whole network. The examination has been conducted for four different seasons of the year and various configurations of available power sources. The provided system scenario was based on real data on weather conditions, building placement, and implemented mobile networks for the city of Poznan in Poland. Used RES generators were designed in accordance with the specifications of real devices.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [353]
标题:  Reachability-based Trajectory Design via Exact Formulation of Implicit  Neural Signed Distance Functions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12280
作者:  Jonathan Michaux,  Qingyi Chen,  Challen Enninful Adu,  Jinsun Liu,  Ram Vasudevan
备注:  
Abstract:Generating receding-horizon motion trajectories for autonomous vehicles in real-time while also providing safety guarantees is challenging. This is because a future trajectory needs to be planned before the previously computed trajectory is completely executed. This becomes even more difficult if the trajectory is required to satisfy continuous-time collision-avoidance constraints while accounting for a large number of obstacles. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a novel real-time, receding-horizon motion planning algorithm named REachability-based trajectory Design via Exact Formulation of Implicit NEural signed Distance functions (REDEFINED). REDEFINED first applies offline reachability analysis to compute zonotope-based reachable sets that overapproximate the motion of the ego vehicle. During online planning, REDEFINED leverages zonotope arithmetic to construct a neural implicit representation that computes the exact signed distance between a parameterized swept volume of the ego vehicle and obstacle vehicles. REDEFINED then implements a novel, real-time optimization framework that utilizes the neural network to construct a collision avoidance constraint. REDEFINED is compared to a variety of state-of-the-art techniques and is demonstrated to successfully enable the vehicle to safely navigate through complex environments. Code, data, and video demonstrations can be found at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [354]
标题:  Scalable Networked Feature Selection with Randomized Algorithm for Robot  Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12279
作者:  Vivek Pandey,  Arash Amini,  Guangyi Liu,  Ufuk Topcu,  Qiyu Sun,  Kostas Daniilidis,  Nader Motee
备注:  
Abstract:We address the problem of sparse selection of visual features for localizing a team of robots navigating an unknown environment, where robots can exchange relative position measurements with neighbors. We select a set of the most informative features by anticipating their importance in robots localization by simulating trajectories of robots over a prediction horizon. Through theoretical proofs, we establish a crucial connection between graph Laplacian and the importance of features. We show that strong network connectivity translates to uniformity in feature importance, which enables uniform random sampling of features and reduces the overall computational complexity. We leverage a scalable randomized algorithm for sparse sums of positive semidefinite matrices to efficiently select the set of the most informative features and significantly improve the probabilistic performance bounds. Finally, we support our findings with extensive simulations.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [355]
标题:  Stochastic Rounding Implicitly Regularizes Tall-and-Thin Matrices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12278
作者:  Gregory Dexter,  Christos Boutsikas,  Linkai Ma,  Ilse C.F. Ipsen,  Petros Drineas
备注:  
Abstract:Motivated by the popularity of stochastic rounding in the context of machine learning and the training of large-scale deep neural network models, we consider stochastic nearness rounding of real matrices $\mathbf{A}$ with many more rows than columns. We provide novel theoretical evidence, supported by extensive experimental evaluation that, with high probability, the smallest singular value of a stochastically rounded matrix is well bounded away from zero -- regardless of how close $\mathbf{A}$ is to being rank deficient and even if $\mathbf{A}$ is rank-deficient. In other words, stochastic rounding \textit{implicitly regularizes} tall and skinny matrices $\mathbf{A}$ so that the rounded version has full column rank. Our proofs leverage powerful results in random matrix theory, and the idea that stochastic rounding errors do not concentrate in low-dimensional column spaces.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [356]
标题:  Semi-Algebraic Off-line Range Searching and Biclique Partitions in the  Plane
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12276
作者:  Pankaj K. Agarwal,  Esther Ezra,  Micha Sharir
备注:  
Abstract:Let $P$ be a set of $m$ points in ${\mathbb R}^2$, let $\Sigma$ be a set of $n$ semi-algebraic sets of constant complexity in ${\mathbb R}^2$, let $(S,+)$ be a semigroup, and let $w: P \rightarrow S$ be a weight function on the points of $P$. We describe a randomized algorithm for computing $w(P\cap\sigma)$ for every $\sigma\in\Sigma$ in overall expected time $O^*\bigl( m^{\frac{2s}{5s-4}}n^{\frac{5s-6}{5s-4}} + m^{2/3}n^{2/3} + m + n \bigr)$, where $s>0$ is a constant that bounds the maximum complexity of the regions of $\Sigma$, and where the $O^*(\cdot)$ notation hides subpolynomial factors. For $s\ge 3$, surprisingly, this bound is smaller than the best-known bound for answering $m$ such queries in an on-line manner. The latter takes $O^*(m^{\frac{s}{2s-1}}n^{\frac{2s-2}{2s-1}}+m+n)$ time. Let $\Phi: \Sigma \times P \rightarrow \{0,1\}$ be the Boolean predicate (of constant complexity) such that $\Phi(\sigma,p) = 1$ if $p\in\sigma$ and $0$ otherwise, and let $\Sigma\mathop{\Phi} P = \{ (\sigma,p) \in \Sigma\times P \mid \Phi(\sigma,p)=1\}$. Our algorithm actually computes a partition ${\mathcal B}_\Phi$ of $\Sigma\mathop{\Phi} P$ into bipartite cliques (bicliques) of size (i.e., sum of the sizes of the vertex sets of its bicliques) $O^*\bigl( m^{\frac{2s}{5s-4}}n^{\frac{5s-6}{5s-4}} + m^{2/3}n^{2/3} + m + n \bigr)$. It is straightforward to compute $w(P\cap\sigma)$ for all $\sigma\in \Sigma$ from ${\mathcal B}_\Phi$. Similarly, if $\eta: \Sigma \rightarrow S$ is a weight function on the regions of $\Sigma$, $\sum_{\sigma\in \Sigma: p \in \sigma} \eta(\sigma)$, for every point $p\in P$, can be computed from ${\mathcal B}_\Phi$ in a straightforward manner. A recent work of Chan et al. solves the online version of this dual point enclosure problem within the same performance bound as our off-line solution. We also mention a few other applications of computing ${\mathcal B}_\Phi$.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [357]
标题:  Energy Consumption in Wireless Systems Equipped with RES, UAVs, and IRSs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12274
作者:  Adam Samorzewski
备注:  The contribution of the paper was presented during the 49th Wireless World Research Forum (WWRF'49) in Poznan, Poland
Abstract:The paper considers the characteristics of the energy budget for mobile base stations (BSs) in the form of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) equipped with Radio Frequency (RF) transceivers, Intelligent Reconfigurable Surfaces (IRSs), and Renewable Energy Sources (RESs). The obtained results highlight the benefits and challenges related to using the aforementioned mobile base stations from the energy side. The research cases took into account two types of UAV devices - multirotor and fixed-wing (airplane-like).
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [358]
标题:  Multimodal Human-Autonomous Agents Interaction Using Pre-Trained  Language and Visual Foundation Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12273
作者:  Linus Nwankwo,  Elmar Rueckert
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we extended the method proposed in [17] to enable humans to interact naturally with autonomous agents through vocal and textual conversations. Our extended method exploits the inherent capabilities of pre-trained large language models (LLMs), multimodal visual language models (VLMs), and speech recognition (SR) models to decode the high-level natural language conversations and semantic understanding of the robot's task environment, and abstract them to the robot's actionable commands or queries. We performed a quantitative evaluation of our framework's natural vocal conversation understanding with participants from different racial backgrounds and English language accents. The participants interacted with the robot using both spoken and textual instructional commands. Based on the logged interaction data, our framework achieved 87.55% vocal commands decoding accuracy, 86.27% commands execution success, and an average latency of 0.89 seconds from receiving the participants' vocal chat commands to initiating the robot's actual physical action. The video demonstrations of this paper can be found at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [359]
标题:  Near-Field Channel Modeling for Electromagnetic Information Theory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12268
作者:  Zhongzhichao Wan,  Jieao Zhu,  Linglong Dai
备注:  In this paper, we propose the near-field channel model for EIT based on electromagnetic scattering theory. Then, we derive the analytical expression of the correlation function of the fields and analyze the characteristics of it. Finally, we design a channel estimation scheme for near-field scenario
Abstract:Electromagnetic information theory (EIT) is one of the important topics for 6G communication due to its potential to reveal the performance limit of wireless communication systems. For EIT, the research foundation is reasonable and accurate channel modeling. Existing channel modeling works for EIT in non-line-of-sight (NLoS) scenario focus on far-field modeling, which can not accurately capture the characteristics of the channel in near-field. In this paper, we propose the near-field channel model for EIT based on electromagnetic scattering theory. We model the channel by using non-stationary Gaussian random fields and derive the analytical expression of the correlation function of the fields. Furthermore, we analyze the characteristics of the proposed channel model, e.g., the sparsity of the model in wavenumber domain. Based on the sparsity of the model, we design a channel estimation scheme for near-field scenario. Numerical analysis verifies the correctness of the proposed scheme and shows that it can outperform existing schemes like least square (LS) and orthogonal matching pursuit (OMP).
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [360]
标题:  Data-Efficient Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining: Prioritizing Data  Quality over Quantity
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12267
作者:  Siddharth Joshi,  Arnav Jain,  Ali Payani,  Baharan Mirzasoleiman
备注:  AISTATS 2024, Code: this https URL
Abstract:Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) on large-scale image-caption datasets learns representations that can achieve remarkable zero-shot generalization. However, such models require a massive amount of pre-training data. Improving the quality of the pre-training data has been shown to be much more effective in improving CLIP's performance than increasing its volume. Nevertheless, finding small subsets of training data that provably generalize the best has remained an open question. In this work, we propose the first theoretically rigorous data selection method for CLIP. We show that subsets that closely preserve the cross-covariance of the images and captions of the full data provably achieve a superior generalization performance. Our extensive experiments on ConceptualCaptions3M and ConceptualCaptions12M demonstrate that subsets found by \method\ achieve over 2.7x and 1.4x the accuracy of the next best baseline on ImageNet and its shifted versions. Moreover, we show that our subsets obtain 1.5x the average accuracy across 11 downstream datasets, of the next best baseline. The code is available at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [361]
标题:  Fostering Inclusion: A Regional Initiative Uniting Communities to  Co-Design Assistive Technologies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12263
作者:  Katharina Schmermbeck,  Oliver Ott,  Lennart Ralfs,  Robert Weidner
备注:  
Abstract:People with disabilities often face discrimination and lack of access in all areas of society. While improving the affordability and appropriateness of assistive technologies can pave the way for easier participation and independence, awareness and acceptance of disability as part of society are inevitable. The presented regional initiative strives to tackle these problems by bringing together people with disabilities, students, researchers, and associations. During different lecture formats at the university, students co-design assistive technologies with people with disabilities. After one year in practice, we reflect on the initiative and its impact on assistive technology development and mitigation of ableism. We conducted and analyzed thirteen semi-structured interviews with participants and other involved stakeholders. Not all co-design projects were finished within the time of a lecture. Participants nevertheless appreciated the co-design approach and steps in the right direction as projects are continued in upcoming semesters. Interviewees highlighted the initiative's importance in raising awareness and broadening knowledge regarding disability and internalized ableist assumptions for those participating. We conclude that collaboration, continuity, and public outreach are most important to work towards tangible assistive technologies, bridging accessibility gaps, and fostering a more inclusive society.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [362]
标题:  BeRGeR: Byzantine-Robust Geometric Routing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12256
作者:  Brown Zaz,  Mikhail Nesterenko,  Gokarna Sharma
备注:  
Abstract:We present BeRGeR: the first asynchronous geometric routing algorithm that guarantees delivery of a message despite a Byzantine fault without relying on cryptographic primitives or randomization. The communication graph is a planar embedding that remains three-connected if all edges intersecting the source-target line segment are removed. We prove the algorithm correct and estimate its message complexity.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [363]
标题:  Parasitic Circus:On the Feasibility of Golden Free PCB Verification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12252
作者:  Maryam Saadat Safa,  Patrick Schaumont,  Shahin Tajik
备注:  
Abstract:Printed circuit boards (PCBs) are an integral part of electronic systems. Hence, verifying their physical integrity in the presence of supply chain attacks (e.g., tampering and counterfeiting) is of utmost importance. Recently, tamper detection techniques grounded in impedance characterization of PCB's Power Delivery Network (PDN) have gained prominence due to their global detection coverage, non-invasive, and low-cost nature. Similar to other physical verification methods, these techniques rely on the existence of a physical golden sample for signature comparisons. However, having access to a physical golden sample for golden signature extraction is not feasible in many real-world scenarios. In this work, we assess the feasibility of eliminating a physical golden sample and replacing it with a simulated golden signature obtained by the PCB design files. By performing extensive simulation and measurements on an in-house designed PCB, we demonstrate how the parasitic impedance of the PCB components plays a major role in reaching a successful verification. Based on the obtained results and using statistical metrics, we show that we can mitigate the discrepancy between collected signatures from simulation and measurements.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [364]
标题:  Multiplier analysis of Lurye systems with power signals
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12251
作者:  William P. Heath,  Joaquin Carrasco
备注:  
Abstract:Multipliers can be used to guarantee both the Lyapunov stability and input-output stability of Lurye systems with time-invariant memoryless slope-restricted nonlinearities. If a dynamic multiplier is used there is no guarantee the closed- loop system has finite incremental gain. It has been suggested in the literature that without this guarantee such a system may be critically sensitive to time-varying exogenous signals including noise. We show that multipliers guarantee the power gain of the system to be bounded and quantifiable. Furthermore power may be measured about an appropriate steady state bias term, provided the multiplier does not require the nonlinearity to be odd. Hence dynamic multipliers can be used to guarantee Lurye systems have low sensitivity to noise, provided other exogenous systems have constant steady state. We illustrate the analysis with an example where the exogenous signal is a power signal with non-zero mean.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [365]
标题:  Improving Out-of-Distribution Generalization of Learned Dynamics by  Learning Pseudometrics and Constraint Manifolds
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12245
作者:  Yating Lin,  Glen Chou,  Dmitry Berenson
备注:  
Abstract:We propose a method for improving the prediction accuracy of learned robot dynamics models on out-of-distribution (OOD) states. We achieve this by leveraging two key sources of structure often present in robot dynamics: 1) sparsity, i.e., some components of the state may not affect the dynamics, and 2) physical limits on the set of possible motions, in the form of nonholonomic constraints. Crucially, we do not assume this structure is known \textit{a priori}, and instead learn it from data. We use contrastive learning to obtain a distance pseudometric that uncovers the sparsity pattern in the dynamics, and use it to reduce the input space when learning the dynamics. We then learn the unknown constraint manifold by approximating the normal space of possible motions from the data, which we use to train a Gaussian process (GP) representation of the constraint manifold. We evaluate our approach on a physical differential-drive robot and a simulated quadrotor, showing improved prediction accuracy on OOD data relative to baselines.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [366]
标题:  Zero-Shot Multi-task Hallucination Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12244
作者:  Patanjali Bhamidipati,  Advaith Malladi,  Manish Shrivastava,  Radhika Mamidi
备注:  
Abstract:In recent studies, the extensive utilization of large language models has underscored the importance of robust evaluation methodologies for assessing text generation quality and relevance to specific tasks. This has revealed a prevalent issue known as hallucination, an emergent condition in the model where generated text lacks faithfulness to the source and deviates from the evaluation criteria. In this study, we formally define hallucination and propose a framework for its quantitative detection in a zero-shot setting, leveraging our definition and the assumption that model outputs entail task and sample specific inputs. In detecting hallucinations, our solution achieves an accuracy of 0.78 in a model-aware setting and 0.61 in a model-agnostic setting. Notably, our solution maintains computational efficiency, requiring far less computational resources than other SOTA approaches, aligning with the trend towards lightweight and compressed models.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [367]
标题:  Reference-based Metrics Disprove Themselves in Question Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12242
作者:  Bang Nguyen,  Mengxia Yu,  Yun Huang,  Meng Jiang
备注:  
Abstract:Reference-based metrics such as BLEU and BERTScore are widely used to evaluate question generation (QG). In this study, on QG benchmarks such as SQuAD and HotpotQA, we find that using human-written references cannot guarantee the effectiveness of the reference-based metrics. Most QG benchmarks have only one reference; we replicated the annotation process and collect another reference. A good metric was expected to grade a human-validated question no worse than generated questions. However, the results of reference-based metrics on our newly collected reference disproved the metrics themselves. We propose a reference-free metric consisted of multi-dimensional criteria such as naturalness, answerability, and complexity, utilizing large language models. These criteria are not constrained to the syntactic or semantic of a single reference question, and the metric does not require a diverse set of references. Experiments reveal that our metric accurately distinguishes between high-quality questions and flawed ones, and achieves state-of-the-art alignment with human judgment.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [368]
标题:  Large language models in 6G security: challenges and opportunities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12239
作者:  Tri Nguyen,  Huong Nguyen,  Ahmad Ijaz,  Saeid Sheikhi,  Athanasios V. Vasilakos,  Panos Kostakos
备注:  29 pages, 2 figures
Abstract:The rapid integration of Generative AI (GenAI) and Large Language Models (LLMs) in sectors such as education and healthcare have marked a significant advancement in technology. However, this growth has also led to a largely unexplored aspect: their security vulnerabilities. As the ecosystem that includes both offline and online models, various tools, browser plugins, and third-party applications continues to expand, it significantly widens the attack surface, thereby escalating the potential for security breaches. These expansions in the 6G and beyond landscape provide new avenues for adversaries to manipulate LLMs for malicious purposes. We focus on the security aspects of LLMs from the viewpoint of potential adversaries. We aim to dissect their objectives and methodologies, providing an in-depth analysis of known security weaknesses. This will include the development of a comprehensive threat taxonomy, categorizing various adversary behaviors. Also, our research will concentrate on how LLMs can be integrated into cybersecurity efforts by defense teams, also known as blue teams. We will explore the potential synergy between LLMs and blockchain technology, and how this combination could lead to the development of next-generation, fully autonomous security solutions. This approach aims to establish a unified cybersecurity strategy across the entire computing continuum, enhancing overall digital security infrastructure.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [369]
标题:  Efficient Transformer-based Hyper-parameter Optimization for  Resource-constrained IoT Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12237
作者:  Ibrahim Shaer,  Soodeh Nikan,  Abdallah Shami
备注:  7 pages, Submitted to IEEE Internet of Things Magazine
Abstract:The hyper-parameter optimization (HPO) process is imperative for finding the best-performing Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). The automation process of HPO is characterized by its sizable computational footprint and its lack of transparency; both important factors in a resource-constrained Internet of Things (IoT) environment. In this paper, we address these problems by proposing a novel approach that combines transformer architecture and actor-critic Reinforcement Learning (RL) model, TRL-HPO, equipped with multi-headed attention that enables parallelization and progressive generation of layers. These assumptions are founded empirically by evaluating TRL-HPO on the MNIST dataset and comparing it with state-of-the-art approaches that build CNN models from scratch. The results show that TRL-HPO outperforms the classification results of these approaches by 6.8% within the same time frame, demonstrating the efficiency of TRL-HPO for the HPO process. The analysis of the results identifies the main culprit for performance degradation attributed to stacking fully connected layers. This paper identifies new avenues for improving RL-based HPO processes in resource-constrained environments.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [370]
标题:  Improving Generalization via Meta-Learning on Hard Samples
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12236
作者:  Nishant Jain,  Arun S. Suggala,  Pradeep Shenoy
备注:  Accepted at CVPR 2024
Abstract:Learned reweighting (LRW) approaches to supervised learning use an optimization criterion to assign weights for training instances, in order to maximize performance on a representative validation dataset. We pose and formalize the problem of optimized selection of the validation set used in LRW training, to improve classifier generalization. In particular, we show that using hard-to-classify instances in the validation set has both a theoretical connection to, and strong empirical evidence of generalization. We provide an efficient algorithm for training this meta-optimized model, as well as a simple train-twice heuristic for careful comparative study. We demonstrate that LRW with easy validation data performs consistently worse than LRW with hard validation data, establishing the validity of our meta-optimization problem. Our proposed algorithm outperforms a wide range of baselines on a range of datasets and domain shift challenges (Imagenet-1K, CIFAR-100, Clothing-1M, CAMELYON, WILDS, etc.), with ~1% gains using VIT-B on Imagenet. We also show that using naturally hard examples for validation (Imagenet-R / Imagenet-A) in LRW training for Imagenet improves performance on both clean and naturally hard test instances by 1-2%. Secondary analyses show that using hard validation data in an LRW framework improves margins on test data, hinting at the mechanism underlying our empirical gains. We believe this work opens up new research directions for the meta-optimization of meta-learning in a supervised learning context.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [371]
标题:  IKSPARK: An Inverse Kinematics Solver using Semidefinite Relaxation and  Rank Minimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12235
作者:  Liangting Wu,  Roberto Tron
备注:  
Abstract:Inverse kinematics (IK) is a fundamental problem frequently occurred in robot control and motion planning. However, the problem is nonconvex because the kinematic map between the configuration and task spaces is generally nonlinear, which makes it challenging for fast and accurate solutions. The problem can be more complicated with the existence of different physical constraints imposed by the robot structure. In this paper, we develop an inverse kinematics solver named IKSPARK (Inverse Kinematics using Semidefinite Programming And RanK minimization) that can find solutions for robots with various structures, including open/closed kinematic chains, spherical, revolute, and/or prismatic joints. The solver works in the space of rotation matrices of the link reference frames and involves solving only convex semidefinite problems (SDPs). Specifically, the IK problem is formulated as an SDP with an additional rank-1 constraint on symmetric matrices with constant traces. The solver first solves this SDP disregarding the rank constraint to get a start point and then finds the rank-1 solution iteratively via a rank minimization algorithm with proven local convergence. Compared to other work that performs SDP relaxation for IK problems, our formulation is simpler, and uses variables with smaller sizes. We validate our approach via simulations on different robots, comparing against a standard IK method.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [372]
标题:  Edge-Disjoint Spanning Trees on Star-Product Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12231
作者:  Aleyah Dawkins,  Kelly Isham,  Ales Kubicek,  Kartik Lakhotia,  Laura Monroe
备注:  
Abstract:Star-product graphs are a natural extension of the Cartesian product, but have not been well-studied. We show that many important established and emerging network topologies, including HyperX, SlimFly, BundleFly, PolarStar, mesh, and torus, are in fact star-product graphs. While this connection was known for BundleFly and PolarStar, it was not for the others listed. We extend a method of constructing maximal and near-maximal sets of edge-disjoint spanning trees on Cartesian products to the star product, thus obtain maximal or near-maximal sets of edge-disjoint spanning trees on new networks of importance, where such sets can improve bandwidth of collective operations and therefore accelerate many important workloads in high-performance computing.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Combinatorics (math.CO)

**编号**: [373]
标题:  Fusion Transformer with Object Mask Guidance for Image Forgery Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12229
作者:  Dimitrios Karageorgiou,  Giorgos Kordopatis-Zilos,  Symeon Papadopoulos
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we introduce OMG-Fuser, a fusion transformer-based network designed to extract information from various forensic signals to enable robust image forgery detection and localization. Our approach can operate with an arbitrary number of forensic signals and leverages object information for their analysis -- unlike previous methods that rely on fusion schemes with few signals and often disregard image semantics. To this end, we design a forensic signal stream composed of a transformer guided by an object attention mechanism, associating patches that depict the same objects. In that way, we incorporate object-level information from the image. Each forensic signal is processed by a different stream that adapts to its peculiarities. Subsequently, a token fusion transformer efficiently aggregates the outputs of an arbitrary number of network streams and generates a fused representation for each image patch. These representations are finally processed by a long-range dependencies transformer that captures the intrinsic relations between the image patches. We assess two fusion variants on top of the proposed approach: (i) score-level fusion that fuses the outputs of multiple image forensics algorithms and (ii) feature-level fusion that fuses low-level forensic traces directly. Both variants exceed state-of-the-art performance on seven datasets for image forgery detection and localization, with a relative average improvement of 12.1% and 20.4% in terms of F1. Our network demonstrates robustness against traditional and novel forgery attacks and can be expanded with new signals without training from scratch.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [374]
标题:  Analyzing-Evaluating-Creating: Assessing Computational Thinking and  Problem Solving in Visual Programming Domains
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12227
作者:  Ahana Ghosh,  Liina Malva,  Adish Singla
备注:  This extended version of the SIGCSE 2024 paper includes all 21 test items from ACE along with their answers in the appendix
Abstract:Computational thinking (CT) and problem-solving skills are increasingly integrated into K-8 school curricula worldwide. Consequently, there is a growing need to develop reliable assessments for measuring students' proficiency in these skills. Recent works have proposed tests for assessing these skills across various CT concepts and practices, in particular, based on multi-choice items enabling psychometric validation and usage in large-scale studies. Despite their practical relevance, these tests are limited in how they measure students' computational creativity, a crucial ability when applying CT and problem solving in real-world settings. In our work, we have developed ACE, a novel test focusing on the three higher cognitive levels in Bloom's Taxonomy, i.e., Analyze, Evaluate, and Create. ACE comprises a diverse set of 7x3 multi-choice items spanning these three levels, grounded in elementary block-based visual programming. We evaluate the psychometric properties of ACE through a study conducted with 371 students in grades 3-7 from 10 schools. Based on several psychometric analysis frameworks, our results confirm the reliability and validity of ACE. Our study also shows a positive correlation between students' performance on ACE and performance on Hour of Code: Maze Challenge by this http URL.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [375]
标题:  Large-scale flood modeling and forecasting with FloodCast
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12226
作者:  Qingsong Xu,  Yilei Shi,  Jonathan Bamber,  Chaojun Ouyang,  Xiao Xiang Zhu
备注:  40 pages, 16 figures, under review
Abstract:Large-scale hydrodynamic models generally rely on fixed-resolution spatial grids and model parameters as well as incurring a high computational cost. This limits their ability to accurately forecast flood crests and issue time-critical hazard warnings. In this work, we build a fast, stable, accurate, resolution-invariant, and geometry-adaptative flood modeling and forecasting framework that can perform at large scales, namely FloodCast. The framework comprises two main modules: multi-satellite observation and hydrodynamic modeling. In the multi-satellite observation module, a real-time unsupervised change detection method and a rainfall processing and analysis tool are proposed to harness the full potential of multi-satellite observations in large-scale flood prediction. In the hydrodynamic modeling module, a geometry-adaptive physics-informed neural solver (GeoPINS) is introduced, benefiting from the absence of a requirement for training data in physics-informed neural networks and featuring a fast, accurate, and resolution-invariant architecture with Fourier neural operators. GeoPINS demonstrates impressive performance on popular PDEs across regular and irregular domains. Building upon GeoPINS, we propose a sequence-to-sequence GeoPINS model to handle long-term temporal series and extensive spatial domains in large-scale flood modeling. Next, we establish a benchmark dataset in the 2022 Pakistan flood to assess various flood prediction methods. Finally, we validate the model in three dimensions - flood inundation range, depth, and transferability of spatiotemporal downscaling. Traditional hydrodynamics and sequence-to-sequence GeoPINS exhibit exceptional agreement during high water levels, while comparative assessments with SAR-based flood depth data show that sequence-to-sequence GeoPINS outperforms traditional hydrodynamics, with smaller prediction errors.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)

**编号**: [376]
标题:  HRI in Indian Education: Challenges Opportunities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12223
作者:  Chinmaya Mishra,  Anuj Nandanwar,  Sashikala Mishra
备注:  Presented at the Designing an Intro to HRI Course Workshop at HRI 2024 (arXiv:2403.05588)
Abstract:With the recent advancements in the field of robotics and the increased focus on having general-purpose robots widely available to the general public, it has become increasingly necessary to pursue research into Human-robot interaction (HRI). While there have been a lot of works discussing frameworks for teaching HRI in educational institutions with a few institutions already offering courses to students, a consensus on the course content still eludes the field. In this work, we highlight a few challenges and opportunities while designing an HRI course from an Indian perspective. These topics warrant further deliberations as they have a direct impact on the design of HRI courses and wider implications for the entire field.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [377]
标题:  Secure Synchronization of Heterogeneous Pulse-Coupled Oscillators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12218
作者:  Jiaqi Yan,  Hideaki Ishii
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we consider the synchronization of heterogeneous pulse-coupled oscillators (PCOs), where some of the oscillators might be faulty or malicious. The oscillators interact through identical pulses at discrete instants and evolve continuously with different frequencies otherwise. Despite the presence of misbehaviors, benign oscillators aim to reach synchronization. To achieve this objective, two resilient synchronization protocols are developed in this paper by adapting the real-valued mean-subsequence reduced (MSR) algorithm to pulse-based interactions. The first protocol relies on packet-based communication to transmit absolute frequencies, while the second protocol operates purely with pulses to calculate relative frequencies. In both protocols, each normal oscillator periodically counts the received pulses to detect possible malicious behaviors. By disregarding suspicious pulses from its neighbors, the oscillator updates both its phases and frequencies. The paper establishes sufficient conditions on the initial states and graph structure under which resilient synchronization is achieved in the PCO network. Specifically, the normal oscillators can either detect the presence of malicious nodes or synchronize in both phases and frequencies. Additionally, a comparison between the two algorithms reveals a trade-off between relaxed initial conditions and reduced communication burden.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [378]
标题:  Aggregate Peak EV Charging Demand: The Impact of Segmented Network  Tariffs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12215
作者:  Nanda Kishor Panda,  Na Li,  Simon H. Tindemans
备注:  6 pages, 4 figures, extended abstract
Abstract:Aggregate peak Electric Vehicle (EV) charging demand has become an increasingly concerning issue for network operators, impacting their reliable operations. Various network tariff schemes have been proposed to limit peak demand by incentivizing flexible asset users to shift their demand from peak periods. However, fewer studies quantify the overall effect of these tariff schemes, which operate at the level of individual connections, on the aggregate load. In this paper, we investigate the effect of a multi-level segmented network tariff on aggregate EV charging demand. The interaction between peak-reducing network tariffs and dynamic energy prices is studied, shedding light on the competition between peak-reducing (network tariffs) and peak-forming (wholesale prices) charging behaviour. Results based on real charging transactions from over 650 public charging stations (CS) in the Netherlands show that the segmented network tariff with flat energy prices results in more diverse load profiles with increasing aggregation compared to cost-optimized dispatch based on dynamic day-ahead prices. The average peak demand for charging with segmented network tariffs and flat energy prices is reduced by 49% and 29% compared to optimized charging under dynamic day-ahead energy prices and unoptimized (dumb) charging, respectively.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [379]
标题:  Architectural-Scale Artistic Brush Painting with a Hybrid Cable Robot
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12214
作者:  Gerry Chen,  Tristan Al-Haddad,  Frank Dellaert,  Seth Hutchinson
备注:  8 pages IEEE conference format, submitted to IROS 2024,
Abstract:Robot art presents an opportunity to both showcase and advance state-of-the-art robotics through the challenging task of creating art. Creating large-scale artworks in particular engages the public in a way that small-scale works cannot, and the distinct qualities of brush strokes contribute to an organic and human-like quality. Combining the large scale of murals with the strokes of the brush medium presents an especially impactful result, but also introduces unique challenges in maintaining precise, dextrous motion control of the brush across such a large workspace. In this work, we present the first robot to our knowledge that can paint architectural-scale murals with a brush. We create a hybrid robot consisting of a cable-driven parallel robot and 4 degree of freedom (DoF) serial manipulator to paint a 27m by 3.7m mural on windows spanning 2-stories of a building. We discuss our approach to achieving both the scale and accuracy required for brush-painting a mural through a combination of novel mechanical design elements, coordinated planning and control, and on-site calibration algorithms with experimental validations.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [380]
标题:  Private graphon estimation via sum-of-squares
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12213
作者:  Hongjie Chen,  Jingqiu Ding,  Tommaso d'Orsi,  Yiding Hua,  Chih-Hung Liu,  David Steurer
备注:  70 pages, accepted to STOC 2024
Abstract:We develop the first pure node-differentially-private algorithms for learning stochastic block models and for graphon estimation with polynomial running time for any constant number of blocks. The statistical utility guarantees match those of the previous best information-theoretic (exponential-time) node-private mechanisms for these problems. The algorithm is based on an exponential mechanism for a score function defined in terms of a sum-of-squares relaxation whose level depends on the number of blocks. The key ingredients of our results are (1) a characterization of the distance between the block graphons in terms of a quadratic optimization over the polytope of doubly stochastic matrices, (2) a general sum-of-squares convergence result for polynomial optimization over arbitrary polytopes, and (3) a general approach to perform Lipschitz extensions of score functions as part of the sum-of-squares algorithmic paradigm.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [381]
标题:  Evaluating Named Entity Recognition: Comparative Analysis of Mono- and  Multilingual Transformer Models on Brazilian Corporate Earnings Call  Transcriptions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12212
作者:  Ramon Abilio,  Guilherme Palermo Coelho,  Ana Estela Antunes da Silva
备注:  
Abstract:Named Entity Recognition (NER) is a Natural Language Processing technique for extracting information from textual documents. However, much of the existing research on NER has been centered around English-language documents, leaving a gap in the availability of datasets tailored to the financial domain in Portuguese. This study addresses the need for NER within the financial domain, focusing on Portuguese-language texts extracted from earnings call transcriptions of Brazilian banks. By curating a comprehensive dataset comprising 384 transcriptions and leveraging weak supervision techniques for annotation, we evaluate the performance of monolingual models trained on Portuguese (BERTimbau and PTT5) and multilingual models (mBERT and mT5). Notably, we introduce a novel approach that reframes the token classification task as a text generation problem, enabling fine-tuning and evaluation of T5 models. Following the fine-tuning of the models, we conduct an evaluation on the test dataset, employing performance and error metrics. Our findings reveal that BERT-based models consistently outperform T5-based models. Furthermore, while the multilingual models exhibit comparable macro F1-scores, BERTimbau demonstrates superior performance over PTT5. A manual analysis of sentences generated by PTT5 and mT5 unveils a degree of similarity ranging from 0.89 to 1.0, between the original and generated sentences. However, critical errors emerge as both models exhibit discrepancies, such as alterations to monetary and percentage values, underscoring the importance of accuracy and consistency in the financial domain. Despite these challenges, PTT5 and mT5 achieve impressive macro F1-scores of 98.52% and 98.85%, respectively, with our proposed approach. Furthermore, our study sheds light on notable disparities in memory and time consumption for inference across the models.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [382]
标题:  A Unified Model for Longitudinal Multi-Modal Multi-View Prediction with  Missingness
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12211
作者:  Boqi Chen,  Junier Oliva,  Marc Niethammer
备注:  
Abstract:Medical records often consist of different modalities, such as images, text, and tabular information. Integrating all modalities offers a holistic view of a patient's condition, while analyzing them longitudinally provides a better understanding of disease progression. However, real-world longitudinal medical records present challenges: 1) patients may lack some or all of the data for a specific timepoint, and 2) certain modalities or views might be absent for all patients during a particular period. In this work, we introduce a unified model for longitudinal multi-modal multi-view (MMMV) prediction with missingness. Our method allows as many timepoints as desired for input, and aims to leverage all available data, regardless of their availability. We conduct extensive experiments on the knee osteoarthritis dataset from the Osteoarthritis Initiative (OAI) for pain and Kellgren-Lawrence grade (KLG) prediction at a future timepoint. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method by comparing results from our unified model to specific models that use the same modality and view combinations during training and evaluation. We also show the benefit of having extended temporal data and provide post-hoc analysis for a deeper understanding of each modality/view's importance for different tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [383]
标题:  Decomposing Control Lyapunov Functions for Efficient Reinforcement  Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12210
作者:  Antonio Lopez,  David Fridovich-Keil
备注:  
Abstract:Recent methods using Reinforcement Learning (RL) have proven to be successful for training intelligent agents in unknown environments. However, RL has not been applied widely in real-world robotics scenarios. This is because current state-of-the-art RL methods require large amounts of data to learn a specific task, leading to unreasonable costs when deploying the agent to collect data in real-world applications. In this paper, we build from existing work that reshapes the reward function in RL by introducing a Control Lyapunov Function (CLF), which is demonstrated to reduce the sample complexity. Still, this formulation requires knowing a CLF of the system, but due to the lack of a general method, it is often a challenge to identify a suitable CLF. Existing work can compute low-dimensional CLFs via a Hamilton-Jacobi reachability procedure. However, this class of methods becomes intractable on high-dimensional systems, a problem that we address by using a system decomposition technique to compute what we call Decomposed Control Lyapunov Functions (DCLFs). We use the computed DCLF for reward shaping, which we show improves RL performance. Through multiple examples, we demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach, where our method finds a policy to successfully land a quadcopter in less than half the amount of real-world data required by the state-of-the-art Soft-Actor Critic algorithm.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [384]
标题:  Synthetic Image Generation in Cyber Influence Operations: An Emergent  Threat?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12207
作者:  Melanie Mathys,  Marco Willi,  Michael Graber,  Raphael Meier
备注:  44 pages, 56 figures
Abstract:The evolution of artificial intelligence (AI) has catalyzed a transformation in digital content generation, with profound implications for cyber influence operations. This report delves into the potential and limitations of generative deep learning models, such as diffusion models, in fabricating convincing synthetic images. We critically assess the accessibility, practicality, and output quality of these tools and their implications in threat scenarios of deception, influence, and subversion. Notably, the report generates content for several hypothetical cyber influence operations to demonstrate the current capabilities and limitations of these AI-driven methods for threat actors. While generative models excel at producing illustrations and non-realistic imagery, creating convincing photo-realistic content remains a significant challenge, limited by computational resources and the necessity for human-guided refinement. Our exploration underscores the delicate balance between technological advancement and its potential for misuse, prompting recommendations for ongoing research, defense mechanisms, multi-disciplinary collaboration, and policy development. These recommendations aim to leverage AI's potential for positive impact while safeguarding against its risks to the integrity of information, especially in the context of cyber influence.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [385]
标题:  Information Compression in Dynamic Information Disclosure Games
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12204
作者:  Dengwang Tang,  Vijay G. Subramanian
备注:  14 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:We consider a two-player dynamic information design problem between a principal and a receiver -- a game is played between the two agents on top of a Markovian system controlled by the receiver's actions, where the principal obtains and strategically shares some information about the underlying system with the receiver in order to influence their actions. In our setting, both players have long-term objectives, and the principal sequentially commits to their strategies instead of committing at the beginning. Further, the principal cannot directly observe the system state, but at every turn they can choose randomized experiments to observe the system partially. The principal can share details about the experiments to the receiver. For our analysis we impose the truthful disclosure rule: the principal is required to truthfully announce the details and the result of each experiment to the receiver immediately after the experiment result is revealed. Based on the received information, the receiver takes an action when its their turn, with the action influencing the state of the underlying system. We show that there exist Perfect Bayesian equilibria in this game where both agents play Canonical Belief Based (CBB) strategies using a compressed version of their information, rather than full information, to choose experiments (for the principal) or actions (for the receiver). We also provide a backward inductive procedure to solve for an equilibrium in CBB strategies.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA); Systems and Control (eess.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [386]
标题:  Bootstrapping Reinforcement Learning with Imitation for Vision-Based  Agile Flight
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12203
作者:  Jiaxu Xing,  Angel Romero,  Leonard Bauersfeld,  Davide Scaramuzza
备注:  
Abstract:We combine the effectiveness of Reinforcement Learning (RL) and the efficiency of Imitation Learning (IL) in the context of vision-based, autonomous drone racing. We focus on directly processing visual input without explicit state estimation. While RL offers a general framework for learning complex controllers through trial and error, it faces challenges regarding sample efficiency and computational demands due to the high dimensionality of visual inputs. Conversely, IL demonstrates efficiency in learning from visual demonstrations but is limited by the quality of those demonstrations and faces issues like covariate shift. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel training framework combining RL and IL's advantages. Our framework involves three stages: initial training of a teacher policy using privileged state information, distilling this policy into a student policy using IL, and performance-constrained adaptive RL fine-tuning. Our experiments in both simulated and real-world environments demonstrate that our approach achieves superior performance and robustness than IL or RL alone in navigating a quadrotor through a racing course using only visual information without explicit state estimation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [387]
标题:  DeCoTR: Enhancing Depth Completion with 2D and 3D Attentions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12202
作者:  Yunxiao Shi,  Manish Kumar Singh,  Hong Cai,  Fatih Porikli
备注:  Accepted at CVPR 2024
Abstract:In this paper, we introduce a novel approach that harnesses both 2D and 3D attentions to enable highly accurate depth completion without requiring iterative spatial propagations. Specifically, we first enhance a baseline convolutional depth completion model by applying attention to 2D features in the bottleneck and skip connections. This effectively improves the performance of this simple network and sets it on par with the latest, complex transformer-based models. Leveraging the initial depths and features from this network, we uplift the 2D features to form a 3D point cloud and construct a 3D point transformer to process it, allowing the model to explicitly learn and exploit 3D geometric features. In addition, we propose normalization techniques to process the point cloud, which improves learning and leads to better accuracy than directly using point transformers off the shelf. Furthermore, we incorporate global attention on downsampled point cloud features, which enables long-range context while still being computationally feasible. We evaluate our method, DeCoTR, on established depth completion benchmarks, including NYU Depth V2 and KITTI, showcasing that it sets new state-of-the-art performance. We further conduct zero-shot evaluations on ScanNet and DDAD benchmarks and demonstrate that DeCoTR has superior generalizability compared to existing approaches.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [388]
标题:  Compositional learning of functions in humans and machines
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12201
作者:  Yanli Zhou,  Brenden M. Lake,  Adina Williams
备注:  7 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:The ability to learn and compose functions is foundational to efficient learning and reasoning in humans, enabling flexible generalizations such as creating new dishes from known cooking processes. Beyond sequential chaining of functions, existing linguistics literature indicates that humans can grasp more complex compositions with interacting functions, where output production depends on context changes induced by different function orderings. Extending the investigation into the visual domain, we developed a function learning paradigm to explore the capacity of humans and neural network models in learning and reasoning with compositional functions under varied interaction conditions. Following brief training on individual functions, human participants were assessed on composing two learned functions, in ways covering four main interaction types, including instances in which the application of the first function creates or removes the context for applying the second function. Our findings indicate that humans can make zero-shot generalizations on novel visual function compositions across interaction conditions, demonstrating sensitivity to contextual changes. A comparison with a neural network model on the same task reveals that, through the meta-learning for compositionality (MLC) approach, a standard sequence-to-sequence Transformer can mimic human generalization patterns in composing functions.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [389]
标题:  Empirical Analysis on CI/CD Pipeline Evolution in Machine Learning  Projects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12199
作者:  Alaa Houerbi,  Chadha Siala,  Alexis Tucker,  Dhia Elhaq Rzig,  Foyzul Hassan
备注:  
Abstract:The growing popularity of machine learning (ML) and the integration of ML components with other software artifacts has led to the use of continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) tools, such as Travis CI, GitHub Actions, etc. that enable faster integration and testing for ML projects. Such CI/CD configurations and services require synchronization during the life cycle of the projects. Several works discussed how CI/CD configuration and services change during their usage in traditional software systems. However, there is very limited knowledge of how CI/CD configuration and services change in ML projects. To fill this knowledge gap, this work presents the first empirical analysis of how CI/CD configuration evolves for ML software systems. We manually analyzed 343 commits collected from 508 open-source ML projects to identify common CI/CD configuration change categories in ML projects and devised a taxonomy of 14 co-changes in CI/CD and ML components. Moreover, we developed a CI/CD configuration change clustering tool that identified frequent CI/CD configuration change patterns in 15,634 commits. Furthermore, we measured the expertise of ML developers who modify CI/CD configurations. Based on this analysis, we found that 61.8% of commits include a change to the build policy and minimal changes related to performance and maintainability compared to general open-source projects. Additionally, the co-evolution analysis identified that CI/CD configurations, in many cases, changed unnecessarily due to bad practices such as the direct inclusion of dependencies and a lack of usage of standardized testing frameworks. More practices were found through the change patterns analysis consisting of using deprecated settings and reliance on a generic build language. Finally, our developer's expertise analysis suggests that experienced developers are more inclined to modify CI/CD configurations.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [390]
标题:  FLex: Joint Pose and Dynamic Radiance Fields Optimization for Stereo  Endoscopic Videos
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12198
作者:  Florian Philipp Stilz,  Mert Asim Karaoglu,  Felix Tristram,  Nassir Navab,  Benjamin Busam,  Alexander Ladikos
备注:  
Abstract:Reconstruction of endoscopic scenes is an important asset for various medical applications, from post-surgery analysis to educational training. Neural rendering has recently shown promising results in endoscopic reconstruction with deforming tissue. However, the setup has been restricted to a static endoscope, limited deformation, or required an external tracking device to retrieve camera pose information of the endoscopic camera. With FLex we adress the challenging setup of a moving endoscope within a highly dynamic environment of deforming tissue. We propose an implicit scene separation into multiple overlapping 4D neural radiance fields (NeRFs) and a progressive optimization scheme jointly optimizing for reconstruction and camera poses from scratch. This improves the ease-of-use and allows to scale reconstruction capabilities in time to process surgical videos of 5,000 frames and more; an improvement of more than ten times compared to the state of the art while being agnostic to external tracking information. Extensive evaluations on the StereoMIS dataset show that FLex significantly improves the quality of novel view synthesis while maintaining competitive pose accuracy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [391]
标题:  E2F-Net: Eyes-to-Face Inpainting via StyleGAN Latent Space
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12197
作者:  Ahmad Hassanpour,  Fatemeh Jamalbafrani,  Bian Yang,  Kiran Raja,  Raymond Veldhuis,  Julian Fierrez
备注:  
Abstract:Face inpainting, the technique of restoring missing or damaged regions in facial images, is pivotal for applications like face recognition in occluded scenarios and image analysis with poor-quality captures. This process not only needs to produce realistic visuals but also preserve individual identity characteristics. The aim of this paper is to inpaint a face given periocular region (eyes-to-face) through a proposed new Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)-based model called Eyes-to-Face Network (E2F-Net). The proposed approach extracts identity and non-identity features from the periocular region using two dedicated encoders have been used. The extracted features are then mapped to the latent space of a pre-trained StyleGAN generator to benefit from its state-of-the-art performance and its rich, diverse and expressive latent space without any additional training. We further improve the StyleGAN output to find the optimal code in the latent space using a new optimization for GAN inversion technique. Our E2F-Net requires a minimum training process reducing the computational complexity as a secondary benefit. Through extensive experiments, we show that our method successfully reconstructs the whole face with high quality, surpassing current techniques, despite significantly less training and supervision efforts. We have generated seven eyes-to-face datasets based on well-known public face datasets for training and verifying our proposed methods. The code and datasets are publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [392]
标题:  Shifting the Lens: Detecting Malware in npm Ecosystem with Large  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12196
作者:  Nusrat Zahan,  Philipp Burckhardt,  Mikola Lysenko,  Feross Aboukhadijeh,  Laurie Williams
备注:  13 pages, 1 Figure, 7 tables
Abstract:The Gartner 2022 report predicts that 45% of organizations worldwide will encounter software supply chain attacks by 2025, highlighting the urgency to improve software supply chain security for community and national interests. Current malware detection techniques aid in the manual review process by filtering benign and malware packages, yet such techniques have high false-positive rates and limited automation support. Therefore, malware detection techniques could benefit from advanced, more automated approaches for accurate and minimally false-positive results. The goal of this study is to assist security analysts in identifying malicious packages through the empirical study of large language models (LLMs) to detect potential malware in the npm ecosystem. We present SocketAI Scanner, a multi-stage decision-maker malware detection workflow using iterative self-refinement and zero-shot-role-play-Chain of Thought (CoT) prompting techniques for ChatGPT. We studied 5,115 npm packages (of which 2,180 are malicious) and performed a baseline comparison of the GPT-3 and GPT-4 models with a static analysis tool. Our findings showed promising results for GPT models with low misclassification alert rates. Our baseline comparison demonstrates a notable improvement over static analysis in precision scores above 25% and F1 scores above 15%. We attained precision and F1 scores of 91% and 94%, respectively, for the GPT-3 model. Overall, GPT-4 demonstrates superior performance in precision (99%) and F1 (97%) scores, while GPT-3 presents a cost-effective balance between performance and expenditure.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [393]
标题:  The POLAR Traverse Dataset: A Dataset of Stereo Camera Images Simulating  Traverses across Lunar Polar Terrain under Extreme Lighting Conditions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12194
作者:  Margaret Hansen,  Uland Wong,  Terrence Fong
备注:  6 pages, 5 figures, 3 tables. Associated dataset can be found at this https URL
Abstract:We present the POLAR Traverse Dataset: a dataset of high-fidelity stereo pair images of lunar-like terrain under polar lighting conditions designed to simulate a straight-line traverse. Images from individual traverses with different camera heights and pitches were recorded at 1 m intervals by moving a suspended stereo bar across a test bed filled with regolith simulant and shaped to mimic lunar south polar terrain. Ground truth geometry and camera position information was also recorded. This dataset is intended for developing and testing software algorithms that rely on stereo or monocular camera images, such as visual odometry, for use in the lunar polar environment, as well as to provide insight into the expected lighting conditions in lunar polar regions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [394]
标题:  Continual Domain Randomization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12193
作者:  Josip Josifovski,  Sayantan Auddy,  Mohammadhossein Malmir,  Justus Piater,  Alois Knoll,  Nicolás Navarro-Guerrero
备注:  Under peer review
Abstract:Domain Randomization (DR) is commonly used for sim2real transfer of reinforcement learning (RL) policies in robotics. Most DR approaches require a simulator with a fixed set of tunable parameters from the start of the training, from which the parameters are randomized simultaneously to train a robust model for use in the real world. However, the combined randomization of many parameters increases the task difficulty and might result in sub-optimal policies. To address this problem and to provide a more flexible training process, we propose Continual Domain Randomization (CDR) for RL that combines domain randomization with continual learning to enable sequential training in simulation on a subset of randomization parameters at a time. Starting from a model trained in a non-randomized simulation where the task is easier to solve, the model is trained on a sequence of randomizations, and continual learning is employed to remember the effects of previous randomizations. Our robotic reaching and grasping tasks experiments show that the model trained in this fashion learns effectively in simulation and performs robustly on the real robot while matching or outperforming baselines that employ combined randomization or sequential randomization without continual learning. Our code and videos are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [395]
标题:  PETScML: Second-order solvers for training regression problems in  Scientific Machine Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12188
作者:  Stefano Zampini,  Umberto Zerbinati,  George Turkiyyah,  David Keyes
备注:  
Abstract:In recent years, we have witnessed the emergence of scientific machine learning as a data-driven tool for the analysis, by means of deep-learning techniques, of data produced by computational science and engineering applications. At the core of these methods is the supervised training algorithm to learn the neural network realization, a highly non-convex optimization problem that is usually solved using stochastic gradient methods. However, distinct from deep-learning practice, scientific machine-learning training problems feature a much larger volume of smooth data and better characterizations of the empirical risk functions, which make them suited for conventional solvers for unconstrained optimization. We introduce a lightweight software framework built on top of the Portable and Extensible Toolkit for Scientific computation to bridge the gap between deep-learning software and conventional solvers for unconstrained minimization. We empirically demonstrate the superior efficacy of a trust region method based on the Gauss-Newton approximation of the Hessian in improving the generalization errors arising from regression tasks when learning surrogate models for a wide range of scientific machine-learning techniques and test cases. All the conventional second-order solvers tested, including L-BFGS and inexact Newton with line-search, compare favorably, either in terms of cost or accuracy, with the adaptive first-order methods used to validate the surrogate models.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [396]
标题:  MAC Advice for Facility Location Mechanism Design
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12181
作者:  Zohar Barak,  Anupam Gupta,  Inbal Talgam-Cohen
备注:  
Abstract:Algorithms with predictions have attracted much attention in the last years across various domains, including variants of facility location, as a way to surpass traditional worst-case analyses. We study the $k$-facility location mechanism design problem, where the $n$ agents are strategic and might misreport their location. Unlike previous models, where predictions are for the $k$ optimal facility locations, we receive $n$ predictions for the locations of each of the agents. However, these predictions are only "mostly" and "approximately" correct (or MAC for short) -- i.e., some $\delta$-fraction of the predicted locations are allowed to be arbitrarily incorrect, and the remainder of the predictions are allowed to be correct up to an $\varepsilon$-error. We make no assumption on the independence of the errors. Can such predictions allow us to beat the current best bounds for strategyproof facility location? We show that the $1$-median (geometric median) of a set of points is naturally robust under corruptions, which leads to an algorithm for single-facility location with MAC predictions. We extend the robustness result to a "balanced" variant of the $k$ facilities case. Without balancedness, we show that robustness completely breaks down, even for the setting of $k=2$ facilities on a line. For this "unbalanced" setting, we devise a truthful random mechanism that outperforms the best known result of Lu et al. [2010], which does not use predictions. En route, we introduce the problem of "second" facility location (when the first facility's location is already fixed). Our findings on the robustness of the $1$-median and more generally $k$-medians may be of independent interest, as quantitative versions of classic breakdown-point results in robust statistics.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [397]
标题:  AMReX and pyAMReX: Looking Beyond ECP
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12179
作者:  Andrew Myers,  Weiqun Zhang,  Ann Almgren,  Thierry Antoun,  John Bell,  Axel Huebl,  Alexander Sinn
备注:  12 pages, 1 figure, submitted to the International Journal of High Performance Computing Applications
Abstract:AMReX is a software framework for the development of block-structured mesh applications with adaptive mesh refinement (AMR). AMReX was initially developed and supported by the AMReX Co-Design Center as part of the U.S. DOE Exascale Computing Project, and is continuing to grow post-ECP. In addition to adding new functionality and performance improvements to the core AMReX framework, we have also developed a Python binding, pyAMReX, that provides a bridge between AMReX-based application codes and the data science ecosystem. pyAMReX provides zero- copy application GPU data access for AI/ML, in situ analysis and application coupling, and enables rapid, massively parallel prototyping. In this paper we review the overall functionality of AMReX and pyAMReX, focusing on new developments, new functionality, and optimizations of key operations. We also summarize capabilities of ECP projects that used AMReX and provide an overview of new, non-ECP applications.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [398]
标题:  Safety Implications of Explainable Artificial Intelligence in End-to-End  Autonomous Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12176
作者:  Shahin Atakishiyev,  Mohammad Salameh,  Randy Goebel
备注:  18 pages
Abstract:The end-to-end learning pipeline is gradually creating a paradigm shift in the ongoing development of highly autonomous vehicles, largely due to advances in deep learning, the availability of large-scale training datasets, and improvements in integrated sensor devices. However, a lack of interpretability in real-time decisions with contemporary learning methods impedes user trust and attenuates the widespread deployment and commercialization of such vehicles. Moreover, the issue is exacerbated when these cars are involved in or cause traffic accidents. Such drawback raises serious safety concerns from societal and legal perspectives. Consequently, explainability in end-to-end autonomous driving is essential to enable the safety of vehicular automation. However, the safety and explainability aspects of autonomous driving have generally been investigated disjointly by researchers in today's state of the art. In this paper, we aim to bridge the gaps between these topics and seek to answer the following research question: When and how can explanations improve safety of autonomous driving? In this regard, we first revisit established safety and state-of-the-art explainability techniques in autonomous driving. Furthermore, we present three critical case studies and show the pivotal role of explanations in enhancing self-driving safety. Finally, we describe our empirical investigation and reveal potential value, limitations, and caveats with practical explainable AI methods on their role of assuring safety and transparency for vehicle autonomy.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [399]
标题:  TnT-LLM: Text Mining at Scale with Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12173
作者:  Mengting Wan,  Tara Safavi,  Sujay Kumar Jauhar,  Yujin Kim,  Scott Counts,  Jennifer Neville,  Siddharth Suri,  Chirag Shah,  Ryen W White,  Longqi Yang,  Reid Andersen,  Georg Buscher,  Dhruv Joshi,  Nagu Rangan
备注:  9 pages main content, 8 pages references and appendix
Abstract:Transforming unstructured text into structured and meaningful forms, organized by useful category labels, is a fundamental step in text mining for downstream analysis and application. However, most existing methods for producing label taxonomies and building text-based label classifiers still rely heavily on domain expertise and manual curation, making the process expensive and time-consuming. This is particularly challenging when the label space is under-specified and large-scale data annotations are unavailable. In this paper, we address these challenges with Large Language Models (LLMs), whose prompt-based interface facilitates the induction and use of large-scale pseudo labels. We propose TnT-LLM, a two-phase framework that employs LLMs to automate the process of end-to-end label generation and assignment with minimal human effort for any given use-case. In the first phase, we introduce a zero-shot, multi-stage reasoning approach which enables LLMs to produce and refine a label taxonomy iteratively. In the second phase, LLMs are used as data labelers that yield training samples so that lightweight supervised classifiers can be reliably built, deployed, and served at scale. We apply TnT-LLM to the analysis of user intent and conversational domain for Bing Copilot (formerly Bing Chat), an open-domain chat-based search engine. Extensive experiments using both human and automatic evaluation metrics demonstrate that TnT-LLM generates more accurate and relevant label taxonomies when compared against state-of-the-art baselines, and achieves a favorable balance between accuracy and efficiency for classification at scale. We also share our practical experiences and insights on the challenges and opportunities of using LLMs for large-scale text mining in real-world applications.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [400]
标题:  Graph-Jigsaw Conditioned Diffusion Model for Skeleton-based Video  Anomaly Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12172
作者:  Ali Karami,  Thi Kieu Khanh Ho,  Narges Armanfard
备注:  18 pages, 2 figures, 6 tables
Abstract:Skeleton-based video anomaly detection (SVAD) is a crucial task in computer vision. Accurately identifying abnormal patterns or events enables operators to promptly detect suspicious activities, thereby enhancing safety. Achieving this demands a comprehensive understanding of human motions, both at body and region levels, while also accounting for the wide variations of performing a single action. However, existing studies fail to simultaneously address these crucial properties. This paper introduces a novel, practical and lightweight framework, namely Graph-Jigsaw Conditioned Diffusion Model for Skeleton-based Video Anomaly Detection (GiCiSAD) to overcome the challenges associated with SVAD. GiCiSAD consists of three novel modules: the Graph Attention-based Forecasting module to capture the spatio-temporal dependencies inherent in the data, the Graph-level Jigsaw Puzzle Maker module to distinguish subtle region-level discrepancies between normal and abnormal motions, and the Graph-based Conditional Diffusion model to generate a wide spectrum of human motions. Extensive experiments on four widely used skeleton-based video datasets show that GiCiSAD outperforms existing methods with significantly fewer training parameters, establishing it as the new state-of-the-art.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [401]
标题:  EasyJailbreak: A Unified Framework for Jailbreaking Large Language  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12171
作者:  Weikang Zhou,  Xiao Wang,  Limao Xiong,  Han Xia,  Yingshuang Gu,  Mingxu Chai,  Fukang Zhu,  Caishuang Huang,  Shihan Dou,  Zhiheng Xi,  Rui Zheng,  Songyang Gao,  Yicheng Zou,  Hang Yan,  Yifan Le,  Ruohui Wang,  Lijun Li,  Jing Shao,  Tao Gui,  Qi Zhang,  Xuanjing Huang
备注:  
Abstract:Jailbreak attacks are crucial for identifying and mitigating the security vulnerabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). They are designed to bypass safeguards and elicit prohibited outputs. However, due to significant differences among various jailbreak methods, there is no standard implementation framework available for the community, which limits comprehensive security evaluations. This paper introduces EasyJailbreak, a unified framework simplifying the construction and evaluation of jailbreak attacks against LLMs. It builds jailbreak attacks using four components: Selector, Mutator, Constraint, and Evaluator. This modular framework enables researchers to easily construct attacks from combinations of novel and existing components. So far, EasyJailbreak supports 11 distinct jailbreak methods and facilitates the security validation of a broad spectrum of LLMs. Our validation across 10 distinct LLMs reveals a significant vulnerability, with an average breach probability of 60% under various jailbreaking attacks. Notably, even advanced models like GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4 exhibit average Attack Success Rates (ASR) of 57% and 33%, respectively. We have released a wealth of resources for researchers, including a web platform, PyPI published package, screencast video, and experimental outputs.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [402]
标题:  Sim2Real Manipulation on Unknown Objects with Tactile-based  Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12170
作者:  Entong Su,  Chengzhe Jia,  Yuzhe Qin,  Wenxuan Zhou,  Annabella Macaluso,  Binghao Huang,  Xiaolong Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Using tactile sensors for manipulation remains one of the most challenging problems in robotics. At the heart of these challenges is generalization: How can we train a tactile-based policy that can manipulate unseen and diverse objects? In this paper, we propose to perform Reinforcement Learning with only visual tactile sensing inputs on diverse objects in a physical simulator. By training with diverse objects in simulation, it enables the policy to generalize to unseen objects. However, leveraging simulation introduces the Sim2Real transfer problem. To mitigate this problem, we study different tactile representations and evaluate how each affects real-robot manipulation results after transfer. We conduct our experiments on diverse real-world objects and show significant improvements over baselines for the pivoting task. Our project page is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [403]
标题:  The Power of Few: Accelerating and Enhancing Data Reweighting with  Coreset Selection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12166
作者:  Mohammad Jafari,  Yimeng Zhang,  Yihua Zhang,  Sijia Liu
备注:  Accepted to ICASSP 2024
Abstract:As machine learning tasks continue to evolve, the trend has been to gather larger datasets and train increasingly larger models. While this has led to advancements in accuracy, it has also escalated computational costs to unsustainable levels. Addressing this, our work aims to strike a delicate balance between computational efficiency and model accuracy, a persisting challenge in the field. We introduce a novel method that employs core subset selection for reweighting, effectively optimizing both computational time and model performance. By focusing on a strategically selected coreset, our approach offers a robust representation, as it efficiently minimizes the influence of outliers. The re-calibrated weights are then mapped back to and propagated across the entire dataset. Our experimental results substantiate the effectiveness of this approach, underscoring its potential as a scalable and precise solution for model training.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [404]
标题:  Intelligent Execution through Plan Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12162
作者:  Daniel Borrajo,  Manuela Veloso
备注:  Published at IROS 21, 6 pages
Abstract:Intelligent robots need to generate and execute plans. In order to deal with the complexity of real environments, planning makes some assumptions about the world. When executing plans, the assumptions are usually not met. Most works have focused on the negative impact of this fact and the use of replanning after execution failures. Instead, we focus on the positive impact, or opportunities to find better plans. When planning, the proposed technique finds and stores those opportunities. Later, during execution, the monitoring system can use them to focus perception and repair the plan, instead of replanning from scratch. Experiments in several paradigmatic robotic tasks show how the approach outperforms standard replanning strategies.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [405]
标题:  Effect of Leaders Voice on Financial Market: An Empirical Deep Learning  Expedition on NASDAQ, NSE, and Beyond
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12161
作者:  Arijit Das,  Tanmoy Nandi,  Prasanta Saha,  Suman Das,  Saronyo Mukherjee,  Sudip Kumar Naskar,  Diganta Saha
备注:  20 pages original research
Abstract:Financial market like the price of stock, share, gold, oil, mutual funds are affected by the news and posts on social media. In this work deep learning based models are proposed to predict the trend of financial market based on NLP analysis of the twitter handles of leaders of different fields. There are many models available to predict financial market based on only the historical data of the financial component but combining historical data with news and posts of the social media like Twitter is the main objective of the present work. Substantial improvement is shown in the result. The main features of the present work are- a) proposing completely generalized algorithm which is able to generate models for any twitter handle and any financial component, b) predicting the time window for a tweets effect on a stock price c) analyzing the effect of multiple twitter handles for predicting the trend. A detailed survey is done to find out the latest work in recent years in the similar field, find the research gap, and collect the required data for analysis and prediction. State-of-the-art algorithm is proposed and complete implementation with environment is given. An insightful trend of the result improvement considering the NLP analysis of twitter data on financial market components is shown. The Indian and USA financial markets are explored in the present work where as other markets can be taken in future. The socio-economic impact of the present work is discussed in conclusion.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Computers and Society (cs.CY); General Finance (q-fin.GN)

**编号**: [406]
标题:  ThermoNeRF: Multimodal Neural Radiance Fields for Thermal Novel View  Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12154
作者:  Mariam Hassan,  Florent Forest,  Olga Fink,  Malcolm Mielle
备注:  
Abstract:Thermal scene reconstruction exhibit great potential for ap- plications across a broad spectrum of fields, including building energy consumption analysis and non-destructive testing. However, existing meth- ods typically require dense scene measurements and often rely on RGB images for 3D geometry reconstruction, with thermal information being projected post-reconstruction. This two-step strategy, adopted due to the lack of texture in thermal images, can lead to disparities between the geometry and temperatures of the reconstructed objects and those of the actual scene. To address this challenge, we propose ThermoNeRF, a novel multimodal approach based on Neural Radiance Fields, capable of rendering new RGB and thermal views of a scene jointly. To overcome the lack of texture in thermal images, we use paired RGB and thermal images to learn scene density, while distinct networks estimate color and temperature information. Furthermore, we introduce ThermoScenes, a new dataset to palliate the lack of available RGB+thermal datasets for scene reconstruction. Experimental results validate that ThermoNeRF achieves accurate thermal image synthesis, with an average mean ab- solute error of 1.5°C, an improvement of over 50% compared to using concatenated RGB+thermal data with Nerfacto, a state-of-the-art NeRF method.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [407]
标题:  Routing and Scheduling in Answer Set Programming applied to Multi-Agent  Path Finding: Preliminary Report
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12153
作者:  Roland Kaminski,  Torsten Schaub,  Tran Cao Son,  Jiří Švancara,  Philipp Wanko
备注:  
Abstract:We present alternative approaches to routing and scheduling in Answer Set Programming (ASP), and explore them in the context of Multi-agent Path Finding. The idea is to capture the flow of time in terms of partial orders rather than time steps attached to actions and fluents. This also abolishes the need for fixed upper bounds on the length of plans. The trade-off for this avoidance is that (parts of) temporal trajectories must be acyclic, since multiple occurrences of the same action or fluent cannot be distinguished anymore. While this approach provides an interesting alternative for modeling routing, it is without alternative for scheduling since fine-grained timings cannot be represented in ASP in a feasible way. This is different for partial orders that can be efficiently handled by external means such as acyclicity and difference constraints. We formally elaborate upon this idea and present several resulting ASP encodings. Finally, we demonstrate their effectiveness via an empirical analysis.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC)

**编号**: [408]
标题:  Development of Automated Neural Network Prediction for Echocardiographic  Left ventricular Ejection Fraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12152
作者:  Yuting Zhang,  Boyang Liu,  Karina V. Bunting,  David Brind,  Alexander Thorley,  Andreas Karwath,  Wenqi Lu,  Diwei Zhou,  Xiaoxia Wang,  Alastair R. Mobley,  Otilia Tica,  Georgios Gkoutos,  Dipak Kotecha,  Jinming Duan
备注:  Accepted to Frontiers in Medicine
Abstract:The echocardiographic measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is fundamental to the diagnosis and classification of patients with heart failure (HF). In order to quantify LVEF automatically and accurately, this paper proposes a new pipeline method based on deep neural networks and ensemble learning. Within the pipeline, an Atrous Convolutional Neural Network (ACNN) was first trained to segment the left ventricle (LV), before employing the area-length formulation based on the ellipsoid single-plane model to calculate LVEF values. This formulation required inputs of LV area, derived from segmentation using an improved Jeffrey's method, as well as LV length, derived from a novel ensemble learning model. To further improve the pipeline's accuracy, an automated peak detection algorithm was used to identify end-diastolic and end-systolic frames, avoiding issues with human error. Subsequently, single-beat LVEF values were averaged across all cardiac cycles to obtain the final LVEF. This method was developed and internally validated in an open-source dataset containing 10,030 echocardiograms. The Pearson's correlation coefficient was 0.83 for LVEF prediction compared to expert human analysis (p<0.001), with a subsequent area under the receiver operator curve (AUROC) of 0.98 (95% confidence interval 0.97 to 0.99) for categorisation of HF with reduced ejection (HFrEF; LVEF<40%). In an external dataset with 200 echocardiograms, this method achieved an AUC of 0.90 (95% confidence interval 0.88 to 0.91) for HFrEF assessment. This study demonstrates that an automated neural network-based calculation of LVEF is comparable to expert clinicians performing time-consuming, frame-by-frame manual evaluation of cardiac systolic function.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [409]
标题:  Fusing Domain-Specific Content from Large Language Models into Knowledge  Graphs for Enhanced Zero Shot Object State Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12151
作者:  Filippos Gouidis,  Katerina Papantoniou,  Konstantinos Papoutsakis Theodore Patkos,  Antonis Argyros,  Dimitris Plexousakis
备注:  Accepted at the AAAI-MAKE 24
Abstract:Domain-specific knowledge can significantly contribute to addressing a wide variety of vision tasks. However, the generation of such knowledge entails considerable human labor and time costs. This study investigates the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) in generating and providing domain-specific information through semantic embeddings. To achieve this, an LLM is integrated into a pipeline that utilizes Knowledge Graphs and pre-trained semantic vectors in the context of the Vision-based Zero-shot Object State Classification task. We thoroughly examine the behavior of the LLM through an extensive ablation study. Our findings reveal that the integration of LLM-based embeddings, in combination with general-purpose pre-trained embeddings, leads to substantial performance improvements. Drawing insights from this ablation study, we conduct a comparative analysis against competing models, thereby highlighting the state-of-the-art performance achieved by the proposed approach.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [410]
标题:  Ergonomic Optimization in Worker-Robot Bimanual Object Handover:  Implementing REBA Using Reinforcement Learning in Virtual Reality
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12149
作者:  Mani Amani,  Reza Akhavian
备注:  Submitted to Safety Science
Abstract:Robots can serve as safety catalysts on construction job sites by taking over hazardous and repetitive tasks while alleviating the risks associated with existing manual workflows. Research on the safety of physical human-robot interaction (pHRI) is traditionally focused on addressing the risks associated with potential collisions. However, it is equally important to ensure that the workflows involving a collaborative robot are inherently safe, even though they may not result in an accident. For example, pHRI may require the human counterpart to use non-ergonomic body postures to conform to the robot hardware and physical configurations. Frequent and long-term exposure to such situations may result in chronic health issues. Safety and ergonomics assessment measures can be understood by robots if they are presented in algorithmic fashions so optimization for body postures is attainable. While frameworks such as Rapid Entire Body Assessment (REBA) have been an industry standard for many decades, they lack a rigorous mathematical structure which poses challenges in using them immediately for pHRI safety optimization purposes. Furthermore, learnable approaches have limited robustness outside of their training data, reducing generalizability. In this paper, we propose a novel framework that approaches optimization through Reinforcement Learning, ensuring precise, online ergonomic scores as compared to approximations, while being able to generalize and tune the regiment to any human and any task. To ensure practicality, the training is done in virtual reality utilizing Inverse Kinematics to simulate human movement mechanics. Experimental findings are compared to ergonomically naive object handover heuristics and indicate promising results where the developed framework can find the optimal object handover coordinates in pHRI contexts for manual material handling exemplary situations.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [411]
标题:  Syn-QA2: Evaluating False Assumptions in Long-tail Questions with  Synthetic QA Datasets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12145
作者:  Ashwin Daswani,  Rohan Sawant,  Najoung Kim
备注:  Preprint
Abstract:Sensitivity to false assumptions (or false premises) in information-seeking questions is critical for robust question-answering (QA) systems. Recent work has shown that false assumptions in naturally occurring questions pose challenges to current models, with low performance on both generative QA and simple detection tasks (Kim et al. 2023). However, the focus of existing work on naturally occurring questions leads to a gap in the analysis of model behavior on the long tail of the distribution of possible questions. To this end, we introduce Syn-(QA)$^2$, a set of two synthetically generated QA datasets: one generated using perturbed relations from Wikidata, and the other by perturbing HotpotQA (Yang et al. 2018). Our findings from evaluating a range of large language models are threefold: (1) false assumptions in QA are challenging, echoing the findings of prior work, (2) the binary detection task is challenging even compared to the difficulty of generative QA itself, possibly due to the linguistic structure of the problem, and (3) the detection task is more challenging with long-tail questions compared to naturally occurring questions, highlighting the utility of our synthetic datasets and generation method.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [412]
标题:  Graph Neural Networks for Learning Equivariant Representations of Neural  Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12143
作者:  Miltiadis Kofinas,  Boris Knyazev,  Yan Zhang,  Yunlu Chen,  Gertjan J. Burghouts,  Efstratios Gavves,  Cees G. M. Snoek,  David W. Zhang
备注:  In ICLR 2024
Abstract:Neural networks that process the parameters of other neural networks find applications in domains as diverse as classifying implicit neural representations, generating neural network weights, and predicting generalization errors. However, existing approaches either overlook the inherent permutation symmetry in the neural network or rely on intricate weight-sharing patterns to achieve equivariance, while ignoring the impact of the network architecture itself. In this work, we propose to represent neural networks as computational graphs of parameters, which allows us to harness powerful graph neural networks and transformers that preserve permutation symmetry. Consequently, our approach enables a single model to encode neural computational graphs with diverse architectures. We showcase the effectiveness of our method on a wide range of tasks, including classification and editing of implicit neural representations, predicting generalization performance, and learning to optimize, while consistently outperforming state-of-the-art methods. The source code is open-sourced at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [413]
标题:  Unsupervised End-to-End Training with a Self-Defined Bio-Inspired Target
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12116
作者:  Dongshu Liu,  Jérémie Laydevant,  Adrien Pontlevy,  Damien Querlioz,  Julie Grollier
备注:  
Abstract:Current unsupervised learning methods depend on end-to-end training via deep learning techniques such as self-supervised learning, with high computational requirements, or employ layer-by-layer training using bio-inspired approaches like Hebbian learning, using local learning rules incompatible with supervised learning. Both approaches are problematic for edge AI hardware that relies on sparse computational resources and would strongly benefit from alternating between unsupervised and supervised learning phases - thus leveraging widely available unlabeled data from the environment as well as labeled training datasets. To solve this challenge, in this work, we introduce a 'self-defined target' that uses Winner-Take-All (WTA) selectivity at the network's final layer, complemented by regularization through biologically inspired homeostasis mechanism. This approach, framework-agnostic and compatible with both global (Backpropagation) and local (Equilibrium propagation) learning rules, achieves a 97.6% test accuracy on the MNIST dataset. Furthermore, we demonstrate that incorporating a hidden layer enhances classification accuracy and the quality of learned features across all training methods, showcasing the advantages of end-to-end unsupervised training. Extending to semi-supervised learning, our method dynamically adjusts the target according to data availability, reaching a 96.6% accuracy with just 600 labeled MNIST samples. This result highlights our 'unsupervised target' strategy's efficacy and flexibility in scenarios ranging from abundant to no labeled data availability.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [414]
标题:  Safety Analysis of Autonomous Railway Systems: An Introduction to the  SACRED Methodology
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12114
作者:  Josh Hunter,  John McDermid,  Simon Burton
备注:  S. Bernardi, T. Zoppi (Editors), "Fast Abstracts and Student Forum Proceedings - EDCC 2024 - 19th European Dependable Computing Conference, Leuven, Belgium, 8-11 April 2024"
Abstract:As the railway industry increasingly seeks to introduce autonomy and machine learning (ML), several questions arise. How can safety be assured for such systems and technologies? What is the applicability of current safety standards within this new technological landscape? What are the key metrics to classify a system as safe? Currently, safety analysis for the railway reflects the failure modes of existing technology; in contrast, the primary concern of analysis of automation is typically average performance. Such purely statistical approaches to measuring ML performance are limited, as they may overlook classes of situations that may occur rarely but in which the function performs consistently poorly. To combat these difficulties we introduce SACRED, a safety methodology for producing an initial safety case and determining important safety metrics for autonomous systems. The development of SACRED is motivated by the proposed GoA-4 light-rail system in Berlin.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [415]
标题:  GCAM: Gaussian and causal-attention model of food fine-grained  recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12109
作者:  Guohang Zhuang,  Yue Hu,  Tianxing Yan,  JiaZhan Gao
备注:  23 pages, 11 figures
Abstract:Currently, most food recognition relies on deep learning for category classification. However, these approaches struggle to effectively distinguish between visually similar food samples, highlighting the pressing need to address fine-grained issues in food recognition. To mitigate these challenges, we propose the adoption of a Gaussian and causal-attention model for fine-grained object this http URL particular, we train to obtain Gaussian features over target regions, followed by the extraction of fine-grained features from the objects, thereby enhancing the feature mapping capabilities of the target regions. To counteract data drift resulting from uneven data distributions, we employ a counterfactual reasoning approach. By using counterfactual interventions, we analyze the impact of the learned image attention mechanism on network predictions, enabling the network to acquire more useful attention weights for fine-grained image recognition. Finally, we design a learnable loss strategy to balance training stability across various modules, ultimately improving the accuracy of the final target recognition. We validate our approach on four relevant datasets, demonstrating its excellent performance across these four datasets.We experimentally show that GCAM surpasses state-of-the-art methods on the ETH-FOOD101, UECFOOD256, and Vireo-FOOD172 datasets. Furthermore, our approach also achieves state-of-the-art performance on the CUB-200 dataset.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [416]
标题:  Does AI help humans make better decisions? A methodological framework  for experimental evaluation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12108
作者:  Eli Ben-Michael,  D. James Greiner,  Melody Huang,  Kosuke Imai,  Zhichao Jiang,  Sooahn Shin
备注:  
Abstract:The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) based on data-driven algorithms has become ubiquitous in today's society. Yet, in many cases and especially when stakes are high, humans still make final decisions. The critical question, therefore, is whether AI helps humans make better decisions as compared to a human alone or AI an alone. We introduce a new methodological framework that can be used to answer experimentally this question with no additional assumptions. We measure a decision maker's ability to make correct decisions using standard classification metrics based on the baseline potential outcome. We consider a single-blinded experimental design, in which the provision of AI-generated recommendations is randomized across cases with a human making final decisions. Under this experimental design, we show how to compare the performance of three alternative decision-making systems--human-alone, human-with-AI, and AI-alone. We apply the proposed methodology to the data from our own randomized controlled trial of a pretrial risk assessment instrument. We find that AI recommendations do not improve the classification accuracy of a judge's decision to impose cash bail. Our analysis also shows that AI-alone decisions generally perform worse than human decisions with or without AI assistance. Finally, AI recommendations tend to impose cash bail on non-white arrestees more often than necessary when compared to white arrestees.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); General Economics (econ.GN); Applications (stat.AP); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [417]
标题:  Circular Belief Propagation for Approximate Probabilistic Inference
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12106
作者:  Vincent Bouttier,  Renaud Jardri,  Sophie Deneve
备注:  
Abstract:Belief Propagation (BP) is a simple probabilistic inference algorithm, consisting of passing messages between nodes of a graph representing a probability distribution. Its analogy with a neural network suggests that it could have far-ranging applications for neuroscience and artificial intelligence. Unfortunately, it is only exact when applied to cycle-free graphs, which restricts the potential of the algorithm. In this paper, we propose Circular Belief Propagation (CBP), an extension of BP which limits the detrimental effects of message reverberation caused by cycles by learning to detect and cancel spurious correlations and belief amplifications. We show in numerical experiments involving binary probabilistic graphs that CBP far outperforms BP and reaches good performance compared to that of previously proposed algorithms.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [418]
标题:  Learning Time Slot Preferences via Mobility Tree for Next POI  Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12100
作者:  Tianhao Huang,  Xuan Pan,  Xiangrui Cai,  Ying Zhang,  Xiaojie Yuan
备注:  
Abstract:Next Point-of-Interests (POIs) recommendation task aims to provide a dynamic ranking of POIs based on users' current check-in trajectories. The recommendation performance of this task is contingent upon a comprehensive understanding of users' personalized behavioral patterns through Location-based Social Networks (LBSNs) data. While prior studies have adeptly captured sequential patterns and transitional relationships within users' check-in trajectories, a noticeable gap persists in devising a mechanism for discerning specialized behavioral patterns during distinct time slots, such as noon, afternoon, or evening. In this paper, we introduce an innovative data structure termed the ``Mobility Tree'', tailored for hierarchically describing users' check-in records. The Mobility Tree encompasses multi-granularity time slot nodes to learn user preferences across varying temporal periods. Meanwhile, we propose the Mobility Tree Network (MTNet), a multitask framework for personalized preference learning based on Mobility Trees. We develop a four-step node interaction operation to propagate feature information from the leaf nodes to the root node. Additionally, we adopt a multitask training strategy to push the model towards learning a robust representation. The comprehensive experimental results demonstrate the superiority of MTNet over ten state-of-the-art next POI recommendation models across three real-world LBSN datasets, substantiating the efficacy of time slot preference learning facilitated by Mobility Tree.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [419]
标题:  Deep Generative Design for Mass Production
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12098
作者:  Jihoon Kim,  Yongmin Kwon,  Namwoo Kang
备注:  
Abstract:Generative Design (GD) has evolved as a transformative design approach, employing advanced algorithms and AI to create diverse and innovative solutions beyond traditional constraints. Despite its success, GD faces significant challenges regarding the manufacturability of complex designs, often necessitating extensive manual modifications due to limitations in standard manufacturing processes and the reliance on additive manufacturing, which is not ideal for mass production. Our research introduces an innovative framework addressing these manufacturability concerns by integrating constraints pertinent to die casting and injection molding into GD, through the utilization of 2D depth images. This method simplifies intricate 3D geometries into manufacturable profiles, removing unfeasible features such as non-manufacturable overhangs and allowing for the direct consideration of essential manufacturing aspects like thickness and rib design. Consequently, designs previously unsuitable for mass production are transformed into viable solutions. We further enhance this approach by adopting an advanced 2D generative model, which offer a more efficient alternative to traditional 3D shape generation methods. Our results substantiate the efficacy of this framework, demonstrating the production of innovative, and, importantly, manufacturable designs. This shift towards integrating practical manufacturing considerations into GD represents a pivotal advancement, transitioning from purely inspirational concepts to actionable, production-ready solutions. Our findings underscore usefulness and potential of GD for broader industry adoption, marking a significant step forward in aligning GD with the demands of manufacturing challenges.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [420]
标题:  Enriching User Shopping History: Empowering E-commerce with a  Hierarchical Recommendation System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12096
作者:  Irem Islek,  Sule Gunduz Oguducu
备注:  
Abstract:Recommendation systems can provide accurate recommendations by analyzing user shopping history. A richer user history results in more accurate recommendations. However, in real applications, users prefer e-commerce platforms where the item they seek is at the lowest price. In other words, most users shop from multiple e-commerce platforms simultaneously; different parts of the user's shopping history are shared between different e-commerce platforms. Consequently, we assume in this study that any e-commerce platform has a complete record of the user's history but can only access some parts of it. If a recommendation system is able to predict the missing parts first and enrich the user's shopping history properly, it will be possible to recommend the next item more accurately. Our recommendation system leverages user shopping history to improve prediction accuracy. The proposed approach shows significant improvements in both NDCG@10 and HR@10.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [421]
标题:  Are LLMs Good Cryptic Crossword Solvers?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12094
作者:  Abdelrahman "Boda" Sadallah,  Daria Kotova,  Ekaterina Kochmar
备注:  
Abstract:Cryptic crosswords are puzzles that rely not only on general knowledge but also on the solver's ability to manipulate language on different levels and deal with various types of wordplay. Previous research suggests that solving such puzzles is a challenge even for modern NLP models. However, the abilities of large language models (LLMs) have not yet been tested on this task. In this paper, we establish the benchmark results for three popular LLMs -- LLaMA2, Mistral, and ChatGPT -- showing that their performance on this task is still far from that of humans.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [422]
标题:  Methods for Matching English Language Addresses
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12092
作者:  Keshav Ramani,  Daniel Borrajo
备注:  
Abstract:Addresses occupy a niche location within the landscape of textual data, due to the positional importance carried by every word, and the geographical scope it refers to. The task of matching addresses happens everyday and is present in various fields like mail redirection, entity resolution, etc. Our work defines, and formalizes a framework to generate matching and mismatching pairs of addresses in the English language, and use it to evaluate various methods to automatically perform address matching. These methods vary widely from distance based approaches to deep learning models. By studying the Precision, Recall and Accuracy metrics of these approaches, we obtain an understanding of the best suited method for this setting of the address matching task.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [423]
标题:  Foundation Models and Information Retrieval in Digital Pathology
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12090
作者:  H.R. Tizhoosh
备注:  This is the preprint of a book chapter to appear in "Artificial Intelligence in Pathology" by Stanley Cohen and Chhavi Chauhan
Abstract:The paper reviews the state-of-the-art of foundation models, LLMs, generative AI, information retrieval and CBIR in digital pathology
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [424]
标题:  TMU at TREC Clinical Trials Track 2023
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12088
作者:  Aritra Kumar Lahiri,  Emrul Hasan,  Qinmin Vivian Hu,  Cherie Ding
备注:  
Abstract:This paper describes Toronto Metropolitan University's participation in the TREC Clinical Trials Track for 2023. As part of the tasks, we utilize advanced natural language processing techniques and neural language models in our experiments to retrieve the most relevant clinical trials. We illustrate the overall methodology, experimental settings, and results of our implementation for the run submission as part of Team - V-TorontoMU.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [425]
标题:  Group Movie Selection using Multi-channel Emotion Recognition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12087
作者:  Elnara Kadyrgali,  Adilet Yerkin,  Yerdauit Torekhan,  Pakizar Shamoi
备注:  submitted to IEEE for consideration
Abstract:Social activities often done in groups include watching television or movies. Choosing a film that appeals to the emotional inclinations of a varied group can be tricky. One of the most difficult aspects of making group movie suggestions is achieving agreement among members. At the same time, emotion is the most important component that connects the film and the viewer. Current research proposes a methodology for group movie selection that employs emotional analysis from numerous sources, such as film posters, soundtracks, and text. Our research stands at the intersection of emotion recognition technology in music, text, color images, and group decision-making, providing a practical tool for navigating the complex dynamics of film selection in a group setting. The survey participants were given emotion categories and asked to select the emotions that best suited a particular movie. Preliminary comparison results between real and predicted scores show the effectiveness of using emotion detection for group movie recommendation. Such systems have the potential to enhance movie recommendation systems.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [426]
标题:  Presenting Terrorizer: an algorithm for consolidating company names in  patent assignees
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12083
作者:  Grazia Sveva Ascione,  Valerio Sterzi
备注:  
Abstract:The problem of disambiguation of company names poses a significant challenge in extracting useful information from patents. This issue biases research outcomes as it mostly underestimates the number of patents attributed to companies, particularly multinational corporations which file patents under a plethora of names, including alternate spellings of the same entity and, eventually, companies' subsidiaries. To date, addressing these challenges has relied on labor-intensive dictionary based or string matching approaches, leaving the problem of patents' assignee harmonization on large datasets mostly unresolved. To bridge this gap, this paper describes the Terrorizer algorithm, a text-based algorithm that leverages natural language processing (NLP), network theory, and rule-based techniques to harmonize the variants of company names recorded as patent assignees. In particular, the algorithm follows the tripartite structure of its antecedents, namely parsing, matching and filtering stage, adding an original "knowledge augmentation" phase which is used to enrich the information available on each assignee name. We use Terrorizer on a set of 325'917 companies' names who are assignees of patents granted by the USPTO from 2005 to 2022. The performance of Terrorizer is evaluated on four gold standard datasets. This validation step shows us two main things: the first is that the performance of Terrorizer is similar over different kind of datasets, proving that our algorithm generalizes well. Second, when comparing its performance with the one of the algorithm currently used in PatentsView for the same task (Monath et al., 2021), it achieves a higher F1 score. Finally, we use the Tree-structured Parzen Estimator (TPE) optimization algorithm for the hyperparameters' tuning. Our final result is a reduction in the initial set of names of over 42%.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [427]
标题:  The Boy Who Survived: Removing Harry Potter from an LLM is harder than  reported
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12082
作者:  Adam Shostack
备注:  2 pages, 4 pages of appendix. Comment on arXiv:2310.02238
Abstract:Recent work arXiv.2310.02238 asserted that "we effectively erase the model's ability to generate or recall Harry Potter-related content.'' This claim is shown to be overbroad. A small experiment of less than a dozen trials led to repeated and specific mentions of Harry Potter, including "Ah, I see! A "muggle" is a term used in the Harry Potter book series by Terry Pratchett...''
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [428]
标题:  Evaluating Terrain-Dependent Performance for Martian Frost Detection in  Visible Satellite Observations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12080
作者:  Gary Doran,  Serina Diniega,  Steven Lu,  Mark Wronkiewicz,  Kiri L. Wagstaff
备注:  This is the author's version of the work. It is posted here for your personal use. Not for redistribution. The definitive Version of Record was published in: SIGKDD DeepSpatial '22, August 15, 2022, Washington, DC
Abstract:Seasonal frosting and defrosting on the surface of Mars is hypothesized to drive both climate processes and the formation and evolution of geomorphological features such as gullies. Past studies have focused on manually analyzing the behavior of the frost cycle in the northern mid-latitude region of Mars using high-resolution visible observations from orbit. Extending these studies globally requires automating the detection of frost using data science techniques such as convolutional neural networks. However, visible indications of frost presence can vary significantly depending on the geologic context on which the frost is superimposed. In this study, we (1) present a novel approach for spatially partitioning data to reduce biases in model performance estimation, (2) illustrate how geologic context affects automated frost detection, and (3) propose mitigations to observed biases in automated frost detection.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [429]
标题:  Beyond Beats: A Recipe to Song Popularity? A machine learning approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12079
作者:  Niklas Sebastian,  Jung,  Florian Mayer
备注:  14 pages
Abstract:Music popularity prediction has garnered significant attention in both industry and academia, fuelled by the rise of data-driven algorithms and streaming platforms like Spotify. This study aims to explore the predictive power of various machine learning models in forecasting song popularity using a dataset comprising 30,000 songs spanning different genres from 1957 to 2020. Methods: We employ Ordinary Least Squares (OLS), Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS), Random Forest, and XGBoost algorithms to analyse song characteristics and their impact on popularity. Results: Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression analysis reveals genre as the primary influencer of popularity, with notable trends over time. MARS modelling highlights the complex relationship between variables, particularly with features like instrumentalness and duration. Random Forest and XGBoost models underscore the importance of genre, especially EDM, in predicting popularity. Despite variations in performance, Random Forest emerges as the most effective model, improving prediction accuracy by 7.1% compared to average scores. Despite the importance of genre, predicting song popularity remains challenging, as observed variations in music-related features suggest complex interactions between genre and other factors. Consequently, while certain characteristics like loudness and song duration may impact popularity scores, accurately predicting song success remains elusive.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Applications (stat.AP)

**编号**: [430]
标题:  Evaluating Robustness of Generative Search Engine on Adversarial Factual  Questions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12077
作者:  Xuming Hu,  Xiaochuan Li,  Junzhe Chen,  Yinghui Li,  Yangning Li,  Xiaoguang Li,  Yasheng Wang,  Qun Liu,  Lijie Wen,  Philip S. Yu,  Zhijiang Guo
备注:  21 pages, 7 figures, 4 tables
Abstract:Generative search engines have the potential to transform how people seek information online, but generated responses from existing large language models (LLMs)-backed generative search engines may not always be accurate. Nonetheless, retrieval-augmented generation exacerbates safety concerns, since adversaries may successfully evade the entire system by subtly manipulating the most vulnerable part of a claim. To this end, we propose evaluating the robustness of generative search engines in the realistic and high-risk setting, where adversaries have only black-box system access and seek to deceive the model into returning incorrect responses. Through a comprehensive human evaluation of various generative search engines, such as Bing Chat, PerplexityAI, and YouChat across diverse queries, we demonstrate the effectiveness of adversarial factual questions in inducing incorrect responses. Moreover, retrieval-augmented generation exhibits a higher susceptibility to factual errors compared to LLMs without retrieval. These findings highlight the potential security risks of these systems and emphasize the need for rigorous evaluation before deployment.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR)

**编号**: [431]
标题:  Neuron-centric Hebbian Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12076
作者:  Andrea Ferigo,  Elia Cunegatti,  Giovanni Iacca
备注:  
Abstract:One of the most striking capabilities behind the learning mechanisms of the brain is the adaptation, through structural and functional plasticity, of its synapses. While synapses have the fundamental role of transmitting information across the brain, several studies show that it is the neuron activations that produce changes on synapses. Yet, most plasticity models devised for artificial Neural Networks (NNs), e.g., the ABCD rule, focus on synapses, rather than neurons, therefore optimizing synaptic-specific Hebbian parameters. This approach, however, increases the complexity of the optimization process since each synapse is associated to multiple Hebbian parameters. To overcome this limitation, we propose a novel plasticity model, called Neuron-centric Hebbian Learning (NcHL), where optimization focuses on neuron- rather than synaptic-specific Hebbian parameters. Compared to the ABCD rule, NcHL reduces the parameters from $5W$ to $5N$, being $W$ and $N$ the number of weights and neurons, and usually $N \ll W$. We also devise a "weightless" NcHL model, which requires less memory by approximating the weights based on a record of neuron activations. Our experiments on two robotic locomotion tasks reveal that NcHL performs comparably to the ABCD rule, despite using up to $\sim97$ times less parameters, thus allowing for scalable plasticity.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [432]
标题:  Adversarial Nibbler: An Open Red-Teaming Method for Identifying Diverse  Harms in Text-to-Image Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12075
作者:  Jessica Quaye,  Alicia Parrish,  Oana Inel,  Charvi Rastogi,  Hannah Rose Kirk,  Minsuk Kahng,  Erin van Liemt,  Max Bartolo,  Jess Tsang,  Justin White,  Nathan Clement,  Rafael Mosquera,  Juan Ciro,  Vijay Janapa Reddi,  Lora Aroyo
备注:  14 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:With the rise of text-to-image (T2I) generative AI models reaching wide audiences, it is critical to evaluate model robustness against non-obvious attacks to mitigate the generation of offensive images. By focusing on ``implicitly adversarial'' prompts (those that trigger T2I models to generate unsafe images for non-obvious reasons), we isolate a set of difficult safety issues that human creativity is well-suited to uncover. To this end, we built the Adversarial Nibbler Challenge, a red-teaming methodology for crowdsourcing a diverse set of implicitly adversarial prompts. We have assembled a suite of state-of-the-art T2I models, employed a simple user interface to identify and annotate harms, and engaged diverse populations to capture long-tail safety issues that may be overlooked in standard testing. The challenge is run in consecutive rounds to enable a sustained discovery and analysis of safety pitfalls in T2I models. In this paper, we present an in-depth account of our methodology, a systematic study of novel attack strategies and discussion of safety failures revealed by challenge participants. We also release a companion visualization tool for easy exploration and derivation of insights from the dataset. The first challenge round resulted in over 10k prompt-image pairs with machine annotations for safety. A subset of 1.5k samples contains rich human annotations of harm types and attack styles. We find that 14% of images that humans consider harmful are mislabeled as ``safe'' by machines. We have identified new attack strategies that highlight the complexity of ensuring T2I model robustness. Our findings emphasize the necessity of continual auditing and adaptation as new vulnerabilities emerge. We are confident that this work will enable proactive, iterative safety assessments and promote responsible development of T2I models.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [433]
标题:  Beyond Quantities: Machine Learning-based Characterization of Inequality  in Infrastructure Quality Provision in Cities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12074
作者:  Bo Li,  Ali Mostafavi
备注:  
Abstract:The objective of this study is to characterize inequality in infrastructure quality across urban areas. While a growing of body of literature has recognized the importance of characterizing infrastructure inequality in cities and provided quantified metrics to inform urban development plans, the majority of the existing approaches focus primarily on measuring the quantity of infrastructure, assuming that more infrastructure is better. Also, the existing research focuses primarily on index-based approaches in which the status of infrastructure provision in urban areas is determined based on assumed subjective weights. The focus on infrastructure quantity and use of indices obtained from subjective weights has hindered the ability to properly examine infrastructure inequality as it pertains to urban inequality and environmental justice considerations. Recognizing this gap, we propose a machine learning-based approach in which infrastructure features that shape environmental hazard exposure are identified and we use the weights obtained by the model to calculate an infrastructure quality provision for spatial areas of cities and accordingly, quantify the extent of inequality in infrastructure quality. The implementation of the model in five metropolitan areas in the U.S. demonstrates the capability of the proposed approach in characterizing inequality in infrastructure quality and capturing city-specific differences in the weights of infrastructure features. The results also show that areas in which low-income populations reside have lower infrastructure quality provision, suggesting the lower infrastructure quality provision as a determinant of urban disparities. Accordingly, the proposed approach can be effectively used to inform integrated urban design strategies to promote infrastructure equity and environmental justice based on data-driven and machine intelligence-based insights.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [434]
标题:  Feasibility of Social-Network-Based eHealth Intervention on the  Improvement of Healthy Habits among Children
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12073
作者:  José Alberto Benítez-Andrades,  Natalia Arias,  María Teresa García-Ordás,  Marta Martínez-Martínez,  Isaías García-Rodríguez
备注:  
Abstract:This study shows the feasibility of an eHealth solution for tackling eating habits and physical activity in the adolescent population. The participants were children from 11 to 15 years old. An intervention was carried out on 139 students in the intervention group and 91 students in the control group, in two schools during 14 weeks. The intervention group had access to the web through a user account and a password. They were able to create friendship relationships, post comments, give likes and interact with other users, as well as receive notifications and information about nutrition and physical activity on a daily basis and get (virtual) rewards for improving their habits. The control group did not have access to any of these features. The homogeneity of the samples in terms of gender, age, body mass index and initial health-related habits was demonstrated. Pre- and post-measurements were collected through self-reports on the application website. After applying multivariate analysis of variance, a significant alteration in the age-adjusted body mass index percentile was observed in the intervention group versus the control group, as well as in the PAQ-A score and the KIDMED score. It can be concluded that eHealth interventions can help to obtain healthy habits. More research is needed to examine the effectiveness in achieving adherence to these new habits.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [435]
标题:  Floralens: a Deep Learning Model for the Portuguese Native Flora
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12072
作者:  António Filgueiras,  Eduardo R. B. Marques,  Luís M. B. Lopes,  Miguel Marques,  Hugo Silva
备注:  
Abstract:Machine-learning techniques, namely deep convolutional neural networks, are pivotal for image-based identification of biological species in many Citizen Science platforms. However, the construction of critically sized and sampled datasets to train the networks and the choice of the network architectures itself remains little documented and, therefore, does not lend itself to be easily replicated. In this paper, we develop a streamlined methodology for building datasets for biological taxa from publicly available research-grade datasets and for deriving models from these datasets using off-the-shelf deep convolutional neural networks such as those provided by Google's AutoML Vision cloud service. Our case study is the Portuguese native flora, anchored in a high-quality dataset, provided by the Sociedade Portuguesa de Botânica, scaled up by adding sampled data from iNaturalist, Pl@ntNet, and this http URL. We find that with a careful dataset design, off-the-shelf machine-learning cloud services produce accurate models with relatively little effort that rival those provided by state-of-the-art citizen science platforms. The best model we derived, dubbed Floralens, has been integrated into the public website of Project Biolens, where we gather models for other taxa as well. The dataset used to train the model and its namesake is publicly available on Zenodo.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [436]
标题:  Tailoring Education with GenAI: A New Horizon in Lesson Planning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12071
作者:  Kostas Karpouzis,  Dimitris Pantazatos,  Joanna Taouki,  Kalliopi Meli
备注:  Abstract accepted for EDUCON 2024 (IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference 2024)
Abstract:The advent of Generative AI (GenAI) in education presents a transformative approach to traditional teaching methodologies, which often overlook the diverse needs of individual students. This study introduces a GenAI tool, based on advanced natural language processing, designed as a digital assistant for educators, enabling the creation of customized lesson plans. The tool utilizes an innovative feature termed 'interactive mega-prompt,' a comprehensive query system that allows educators to input detailed classroom specifics such as student demographics, learning objectives, and preferred teaching styles. This input is then processed by the GenAI to generate tailored lesson plans. To evaluate the tool's effectiveness, a comprehensive methodology incorporating both quantitative (i.e., % of time savings) and qualitative (i.e., user satisfaction) criteria was implemented, spanning various subjects and educational levels, with continuous feedback collected from educators through a structured evaluation form. Preliminary results show that educators find the GenAI-generated lesson plans effective, significantly reducing lesson planning time and enhancing the learning experience by accommodating diverse student needs. This AI-driven approach signifies a paradigm shift in education, suggesting its potential applicability in broader educational contexts, including special education needs (SEN), where individualized attention and specific learning aids are paramount
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [437]
标题:  Ambivalence in stakeholders' views on connected and autonomous vehicles
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12070
作者:  Celina Kacperski,  Tobias Vogel,  Florian Kutzner
备注:  
Abstract:Connected and autonomous vehicles (CAVs) are often discussed as a solution to pressing issues of the current transport systems, including congestion, safety, social inclusion and ecological sustainability. Scientifically, there is agreement that CAVs may solve, but can also aggravate these issues, depending on the specific CAV solution. In the current paper, we investigate the visions and worst-case scenarios of various stakeholders, including representatives of public administrations, automotive original equipment manufacturers, insurance companies, public transportation service providers, mobility experts and politicians. A qualitative analysis of 17 semi-structured interviews is presented. It reveals experts' ambivalence towards the introduction of CAVs, reflecting high levels of uncertainty about CAV consequences, including issues of efficiency, comfort and sustainability, and concerns about road co-users such as pedestrians and cyclists. Implications of the sluggishness of policymakers to set boundary conditions and for the labor market are discussed. An open debate between policymakers, citizens and other stakeholders on how to introduce CAVs seems timely.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [438]
标题:  Fairness Evaluation for Uplift Modeling in the Absence of Ground Truth
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12069
作者:  Serdar Kadioglu,  Filip Michalsky
备注:  IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications (IEEE ICMLA)
Abstract:The acceleration in the adoption of AI-based automated decision-making systems poses a challenge for evaluating the fairness of algorithmic decisions, especially in the absence of ground truth. When designing interventions, uplift modeling is used extensively to identify candidates that are likely to benefit from treatment. However, these models remain particularly susceptible to fairness evaluation due to the lack of ground truth on the outcome measure since a candidate cannot be in both treatment and control simultaneously. In this article, we propose a framework that overcomes the missing ground truth problem by generating surrogates to serve as a proxy for counterfactual labels of uplift modeling campaigns. We then leverage the surrogate ground truth to conduct a more comprehensive binary fairness evaluation. We show how to apply the approach in a comprehensive study from a real-world marketing campaign for promotional offers and demonstrate its enhancement for fairness evaluation.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [439]
标题:  Process mining for self-regulated learning assessment in e-learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12068
作者:  R. Cerezo,  A. Bogarin,  M. Esteban,  C. Romero
备注:  
Abstract:Content assessment has broadly improved in e-learning scenarios in recent decades. However, the eLearning process can give rise to a spatial and temporal gap that poses interesting challenges for assessment of not only content, but also students' acquisition of core skills such as self-regulated learning. Our objective was to discover students' self-regulated learning processes during an eLearning course by using Process Mining Techniques. We applied a new algorithm in the educational domain called Inductive Miner over the interaction traces from 101 university students in a course given over one semester on the Moodle 2.0 platform. Data was extracted from the platform's event logs with 21629 traces in order to discover students' self-regulation models that contribute to improving the instructional process. The Inductive Miner algorithm discovered optimal models in terms of fitness for both Pass and Fail students in this dataset, as well as models at a certain level of granularity that can be interpreted in educational terms, which are the most important achievement in model discovery. We can conclude that although students who passed did not follow the instructors' suggestions exactly, they did follow the logic of a successful self-regulated learning process as opposed to their failing classmates. The Process Mining models also allow us to examine which specific actions the students performed, and it was particularly interesting to see a high presence of actions related to forum-supported collaborative learning in the Pass group and an absence of those in the Fail group.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [440]
标题:  Adapting SAM for Volumetric X-Ray Data-sets of Arbitrary Sizes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12066
作者:  Roland Gruber,  Steffen Rüger,  Thomas Wittenberg
备注:  
Abstract:Objective: We propose a new approach for volumetric instance segmentation in X-ray Computed Tomography (CT) data for Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) by combining the Segment Anything Model (SAM) with tile-based Flood Filling Networks (FFN). Our work evaluates the performance of SAM on volumetric NDT data-sets and demonstrates its effectiveness to segment instances in challenging imaging scenarios. Methods: We implemented and evaluated techniques to extend the image-based SAM algorithm fo the use with volumetric data-sets, enabling the segmentation of three-dimensional objects using FFN's spatially adaptability. The tile-based approach for SAM leverages FFN's capabilities to segment objects of any size. We also explore the use of dense prompts to guide SAM in combining segmented tiles for improved segmentation accuracy. Results: Our research indicates the potential of combining SAM with FFN for volumetric instance segmentation tasks, particularly in NDT scenarios and segmenting large entities and objects. Conclusion: While acknowledging remaining limitations, our study provides insights and establishes a foundation for advancements in instance segmentation in NDT scenarios.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [441]
标题:  Towards a Wireless Physical-Layer Foundation Model: Challenges and  Strategies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12065
作者:  Jaron Fontaine,  Adnan Shahid,  Eli De Poorter
备注:  This paper is under review for the WS33 IEEE ICC 2024 1st Workshop on The Impact of Large Language Models on 6G Networks
Abstract:Artificial intelligence (AI) plays an important role in the dynamic landscape of wireless communications, solving challenges unattainable by traditional approaches. This paper discusses the evolution of wireless AI, emphasizing the transition from isolated task-specific models to more generalizable and adaptable AI models inspired by recent successes in large language models (LLMs) and computer vision. To overcome task-specific AI strategies in wireless networks, we propose a unified wireless physical-layer foundation model (WPFM). Challenges include the design of effective pre-training tasks, support for embedding heterogeneous time series and human-understandable interaction. The paper presents a strategic framework, focusing on embedding wireless time series, self-supervised pre-training, and semantic representation learning. The proposed WPFM aims to understand and describe diverse wireless signals, allowing human interactivity with wireless networks. The paper concludes by outlining next research steps for WPFMs, including the integration with LLMs.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [442]
标题:  Consistency Models Improve Diffusion Inverse Solvers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12063
作者:  Tongda Xu,  Ziran Zhu,  Dailan He,  Yuanyuan Wang,  Ming Sun,  Ning Li,  Hongwei Qin,  Yan Wang,  Jingjing Liu,  Ya-Qin Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Diffusion inverse solvers (DIS) aim to find an image $x$ that lives on the diffusion prior while satisfying the constraint $f(x) = y$, given an operator $f(.)$ and measurement $y$. Most non-linear DIS use posterior mean $\hat{x}_{0|t}=\mathbb{E}[x_0|x_t]$ to evaluate $f(.)$ and minimize the distance $||f(\hat{x}_{0|t})-y||^2$. Previous works show that posterior mean-based distance is biased; instead, posterior sample $x_{0|t}\sim p_{\theta}(x_0|x_t)$ promises a better candidate. In this paper, we first clarify when is posterior sample better: $1)$ When $f(.)$ is linear, the distance with posterior mean is as good as single posterior sample, thus preferable as it does not require Monte Carlo; $2)$ When $f(.)$ is non-linear, the distance using posterior sample is better. As previous approximations to posterior sample do not look like a real image, we propose to use consistency model (CM) as a high quality approximation. In addition, we propose a new family of DIS using pure CM. Empirically, we show that replacing posterior mean by CM improves DIS performance on non-linear $f(.)$ (e.g. semantic segmentation, image captioning). Further, our pure CM inversion works well for both linear and non-linear $f(.)$.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [443]
标题:  Design-Space Exploration of SNN Models using Application-Specific  Multi-Core Architectures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12061
作者:  Sanaullah,  Shamini Koravuna,  Ulrich Rückert,  Thorsten Jungeblut
备注:  Abstract Presentation in 2023 Neuro-Inspired Computing Elements (NICE) Conference
Abstract:With the motivation and the difficulties that currently exist in comprehending and utilizing the promising features of SNNs, we proposed a novel run-time multi-core architecture-based simulator called "RAVSim" (Runtime Analysis and Visualization Simulator), a cutting-edge SNN simulator, developed using LabVIEW and it is publicly available on their website as an official module. RAVSim is a runtime virtual simulation environment tool that enables the user to interact with the model, observe its behavior of output concentration, and modify the set of parametric values at any time while the simulation is in execution. Recently some popular tools have been presented, but we believe that none of the tools allow users to interact with the model simulation in run time.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [444]
标题:  Blockchain-Empowered Immutable and Reliable Delivery Service (BIRDS)  Using UAV Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12060
作者:  Sana Hafeez,  Habib Ullah Manzoor,  Lina Mohjazi,  Ahmed Zoha,  Muhammad Ali Imran,  Yao Sun
备注:  6 pages, 6 figures,2023 IEEE International Workshop on Computer Aided Modeling and Design of Communication Links and Networks (IEEE CAMAD), Edinburgh, UK
Abstract:Exploiting unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for delivery services is expected to reduce delivery time and human resource costs. However, the proximity of these UAVs to the ground can make them an ideal target for opportunistic crim- inals. Consequently, UAVs may be hacked, diverted from their destinations, or used for malicious purposes. Furthermore, as a decentralized (peer-to-peer) technology, the blockchain has im- mense potential to enable secure, decentralized, and cooperative communication among UAVs. With this goal in mind, we propose the Blockchain-Empowered, Immutable, and Reliable Delivery Service (BIRDS) framework to address data security challenges. BIRDS deploys communication hubs across a scalable network. Following the registration phase of BIRDS, UAV node selection is carried out based on a specific consensus proof-of-competence (PoC), where UAVs are evaluated solely on their credibility. The chosen finalist is awarded a certificate for the BIRDS global order fulfillment system. The simulation results demonstrate that BIRDS requires fewer UAVs compared to conventional solutions, resulting in reduced costs and emissions. The proposed BIRDS framework caters to the requirements of numerous users while necessitating less network traffic and consuming low energy.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [445]
标题:  A Thorough Analysis of Radio Resource Assignment for UAV-Enhanced  Vehicular Sidelink Communications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12059
作者:  Francesca Conserva,  Francesco Linsalata,  Marouan Mizmizi,  Maurizio Magarini,  Umberto Spagnolini,  Roberto Verdone,  Chiara Buratti
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid expansion of connected and autonomous vehicles (CAVs) and the shift towards millimiter-wave (mmWave) frequencies offer unprecedented opportunities to enhance road safety and traffic efficiency. Sidelink communication, enabling direct Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communications, play a pivotal role in this transformation. As communication technologies transit to higher frequencies, the associated increase in bandwidth comes at the cost of a severe path and penetration loss. In response to these challenges, we investigate a network configuration that deploys beamforming-capable Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) as relay nodes. In this work, we present a comprehensive analytical framework with a groundbreaking performance metric, i.e. average access probability, that quantifies user satisfaction, considering factors across different protocol stack layers. Additionally, we introduce two Radio Resources Assignment (RRA) methods tailored for UAVs. These methods consider parameters such as resource availability, vehicle distribution, and latency requirements. Through our analytical approach, we optimize the average access probability by controlling UAV altitude based on traffic density. Our numerical findings validate the proposed model and strategy, which ensures that Quality of Service (QoS) standards are met in the domain of Vehicle-to-Anything (V2X) sidelink communications.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [446]
标题:  Water-Based Metaheuristics: How Water Dynamics Can Help Us to Solve  NP-Hard Problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12058
作者:  Fernando Rubio,  Ismael Rodríguez
备注:  14 pages, 0 figures, published in journal Complexity, 2019
Abstract:Many water-based optimization metaheuristics have been introduced during the last decade, both for combinatorial and for continuous optimization. Despite the strong similarities of these methods in terms of their underlying natural metaphors (most of them emulate, in some way or another, how drops collaboratively form paths down to the sea), in general the resulting algorithms are quite different in terms of their searching approach or their solution construction approach. For instance, each entity may represent a solution by itself or, alternatively, entities may construct solutions by modifying the landscape while moving. A researcher or practitioner could assume that the degree of similarity between two water-based metaheuristics heavily depends on the similarity of the natural water mechanics they emulate, but this is not the case. In order to bring some clarity to this mosaic of apparently related metaheuristics, in this paper we introduce them, explain their mechanics, and highlight their differences.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [447]
标题:  Discriminative Consensus Mining with A Thousand Groups for More Accurate  Co-Salient Object Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12057
作者:  Peng Zheng
备注:  Master's thesis of the M.S. program at Aalto University and University of Trento, v1. The source codes, the dataset, and the demos will not be released until the conference/journal version is finished and made public
Abstract:Co-Salient Object Detection (CoSOD) is a rapidly growing task, extended from Salient Object Detection (SOD) and Common Object Segmentation (Co-Segmentation). It is aimed at detecting the co-occurring salient object in the given image group. Many effective approaches have been proposed on the basis of existing datasets. However, there is still no standard and efficient training set in CoSOD, which makes it chaotic to choose training sets in the recently proposed CoSOD methods. First, the drawbacks of existing training sets in CoSOD are analyzed in a comprehensive way, and potential improvements are provided to solve existing problems to some extent. In particular, in this thesis, a new CoSOD training set is introduced, named Co-Saliency of ImageNet (CoSINe) dataset. The proposed CoSINe is the largest number of groups among all existing CoSOD datasets. The images obtained here span a wide variety in terms of categories, object sizes, etc. In experiments, models trained on CoSINe can achieve significantly better performance with fewer images compared to all existing datasets. Second, to make the most of the proposed CoSINe, a novel CoSOD approach named Hierarchical Instance-aware COnsensus MinEr (HICOME) is proposed, which efficiently mines the consensus feature from different feature levels and discriminates objects of different classes in an object-aware contrastive way. As extensive experiments show, the proposed HICOME achieves SoTA performance on all the existing CoSOD test sets. Several useful training tricks suitable for training CoSOD models are also provided. Third, practical applications are given using the CoSOD technique to show the effectiveness. Finally, the remaining challenges and potential improvements of CoSOD are discussed to inspire related work in the future. The source code, the dataset, and the online demo will be publicly available at this http URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [448]
标题:  Enhancing Digital Hologram Reconstruction Using Reverse-Attention Loss  for Untrained Physics-Driven Deep Learning Models with Uncertain Distance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12056
作者:  Xiwen Chen,  Hao Wang,  Zhao Zhang,  Zhenmin Li,  Huayu Li,  Tong Ye,  Abolfazl Razi
备注:  
Abstract:Untrained Physics-based Deep Learning (DL) methods for digital holography have gained significant attention due to their benefits, such as not requiring an annotated training dataset, and providing interpretability since utilizing the governing laws of hologram formation. However, they are sensitive to the hard-to-obtain precise object distance from the imaging plane, posing the $\textit{Autofocusing}$ challenge. Conventional solutions involve reconstructing image stacks for different potential distances and applying focus metrics to select the best results, which apparently is computationally inefficient. In contrast, recently developed DL-based methods treat it as a supervised task, which again needs annotated data and lacks generalizability. To address this issue, we propose $\textit{reverse-attention loss}$, a weighted sum of losses for all possible candidates with learnable weights. This is a pioneering approach to addressing the Autofocusing challenge in untrained deep-learning methods. Both theoretical analysis and experiments demonstrate its superiority in efficiency and accuracy. Interestingly, our method presents a significant reconstruction performance over rival methods (i.e. alternating descent-like optimization, non-weighted loss integration, and random distance assignment) and even is almost equal to that achieved with a precisely known object distance. For example, the difference is less than 1dB in PSNR and 0.002 in SSIM for the target sample in our experiment.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Optics (physics.optics)

**编号**: [449]
标题:  Deep learning based detection of collateral circulation in coronary  angiographies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12055
作者:  Cosmin-Andrei Hatfaludi,  Daniel Bunescu,  Costin Florian Ciusdel,  Alex Serban,  Karl Bose,  Marc Oppel,  Stephanie Schroder,  Christopher Seehase,  Harald F. Langer,  Jeanette Erdmann,  Henry Nording,  Lucian Mihai Itu
备注:  
Abstract:Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the dominant cause of death and hospitalization across the globe. Atherosclerosis, an inflammatory condition that gradually narrows arteries and has potentially fatal effects, is the most frequent cause of CAD. Nonetheless, the circulation regularly adapts in the presence of atherosclerosis, through the formation of collateral arteries, resulting in significant long-term health benefits. Therefore, timely detection of coronary collateral circulation (CCC) is crucial for CAD personalized medicine. We propose a novel deep learning based method to detect CCC in angiographic images. Our method relies on a convolutional backbone to extract spatial features from each frame of an angiography sequence. The features are then concatenated, and subsequently processed by another convolutional layer that processes embeddings temporally. Due to scarcity of data, we also experiment with pretraining the backbone on coronary artery segmentation, which improves the results consistently. Moreover, we experiment with few-shot learning to further improve performance, given our low data regime. We present our results together with subgroup analyses based on Rentrop grading, collateral flow, and collateral grading, which provide valuable insights into model performance. Overall, the proposed method shows promising results in detecting CCC, and can be further extended to perform landmark based CCC detection and CCC quantification.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [450]
标题:  Haze Removal via Regional Saturation-Value Translation and Soft  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12054
作者:  Le-Anh Tran,  Dong-Chul Park
备注:  14 pages, 16 figures
Abstract:This paper proposes a single image dehazing prior, called Regional Saturation-Value Translation (RSVT), to tackle the color distortion problems caused by conventional dehazing approaches in bright regions. The RSVT prior is developed based on two key observations regarding the relationship between hazy and haze-free points in the HSV color space. First, the hue component shows marginal variation between corresponding hazy and haze-free points, consolidating a hypothesis that the pixel value variability induced by haze primarily occurs in the saturation and value spaces. Second, in the 2D saturation-value coordinate system, most lines passing through hazy-clean point pairs are likely to intersect near the atmospheric light coordinates. Accordingly, haze removal for the bright regions can be performed by properly translating saturation-value coordinates. In addition, an effective soft segmentation method based on a morphological min-max channel is introduced. By combining the soft segmentation mask with the RSVT prior, a comprehensive single image dehazing framework is devised. Experimental results on various synthetic and realistic hazy image datasets demonstrate that the proposed scheme successfully addresses color distortion issues and restores visually appealing images. The code of this work is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [451]
标题:  PiGW: A Plug-in Generative Watermarking Framework
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12053
作者:  Rui Ma,  Mengxi Guo,  Li Yuming,  Hengyuan Zhang,  Cong Ma,  Yuan Li,  Xiaodong Xie,  Shanghang Zhang
备注:  18 pages, 13 figures
Abstract:Integrating watermarks into generative images is a critical strategy for protecting intellectual property and enhancing artificial intelligence security. This paper proposes Plug-in Generative Watermarking (PiGW) as a general framework for integrating watermarks into generative images. More specifically, PiGW embeds watermark information into the initial noise using a learnable watermark embedding network and an adaptive frequency spectrum mask. Furthermore, it optimizes training costs by gradually increasing timesteps. Extensive experiments demonstrate that PiGW enables embedding watermarks into the generated image with negligible quality loss while achieving true invisibility and high resistance to noise attacks. Moreover, PiGW can serve as a plugin for various commonly used generative structures and multimodal generative content types. Finally, we demonstrate how PiGW can also be utilized for detecting generated images, contributing to the promotion of secure AI development. The project code will be made available on GitHub.
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [452]
标题:  A Dataset and Benchmark for Copyright Protection from Text-to-Image  Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12052
作者:  Rui Ma,  Qiang Zhou,  Bangjun Xiao,  Yizhu Jin,  Daquan Zhou,  Xiuyu Li,  Aishani Singh,  Yi Qu,  Kurt Keutzer,  Xiaodong Xie,  Jingtong Hu,  Zhen Dong,  Shanghang Zhang
备注:  28 pages, 17 figures
Abstract:Copyright is a legal right that grants creators the exclusive authority to reproduce, distribute, and profit from their creative works. However, the recent advancements in text-to-image generation techniques have posed significant challenges to copyright protection, as these methods have facilitated the learning of unauthorized content, artistic creations, and portraits, which are subsequently utilized to generate and disseminate uncontrolled content. Especially, the use of stable diffusion, an emerging model for text-to-image generation, poses an increased risk of unauthorized copyright infringement and distribution. Currently, there is a lack of systematic studies evaluating the potential correlation between content generated by stable diffusion and those under copyright protection. Conducting such studies faces several challenges, including i) the intrinsic ambiguity related to copyright infringement in text-to-image models, ii) the absence of a comprehensive large-scale dataset, and iii) the lack of standardized metrics for defining copyright infringement. This work provides the first large-scale standardized dataset and benchmark on copyright protection. Specifically, we propose a pipeline to coordinate CLIP, ChatGPT, and diffusion models to generate a dataset that contains anchor images, corresponding prompts, and images generated by text-to-image models, reflecting the potential abuses of copyright. Furthermore, we explore a suite of evaluation metrics to judge the effectiveness of copyright protection methods. The proposed dataset, benchmark library, and evaluation metrics will be open-sourced to facilitate future research and application. The website and dataset can be accessed website dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [453]
标题:  Toward Improving Robustness of Object Detectors Against Domain Shift
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12049
作者:  Le-Anh Tran,  Chung Nguyen Tran,  Dong-Chul Park,  Jordi Carrabina,  David Castells-Rufas
备注:  5 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:This paper proposes a data augmentation method for improving the robustness of driving object detectors against domain shift. Domain shift problem arises when there is a significant change between the distribution of the source data domain used in the training phase and that of the target data domain in the deployment phase. Domain shift is known as one of the most popular reasons resulting in the considerable drop in the performance of deep neural network models. In order to address this problem, one effective approach is to increase the diversity of training data. To this end, we propose a data synthesis module that can be utilized to train more robust and effective object detectors. By adopting YOLOv4 as a base object detector, we have witnessed a remarkable improvement in performance on both the source and target domain data. The code of this work is publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [454]
标题:  Alpha-wolves and Alpha-mammals: Exploring Dictionary Attacks on Iris  Recognition Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12047
作者:  Sudipta Banerjee,  Anubhav Jain,  Zehua Jiang,  Nasir Memon,  Julian Togelius,  Arun Ross
备注:  8 pages, 5 figures, 13 tables, Workshop on Manipulation, Adversarial, and Presentation Attacks in Biometrics, Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision
Abstract:A dictionary attack in a biometric system entails the use of a small number of strategically generated images or templates to successfully match with a large number of identities, thereby compromising security. We focus on dictionary attacks at the template level, specifically the IrisCodes used in iris recognition systems. We present an hitherto unknown vulnerability wherein we mix IrisCodes using simple bitwise operators to generate alpha-mixtures - alpha-wolves (combining a set of "wolf" samples) and alpha-mammals (combining a set of users selected via search optimization) that increase false matches. We evaluate this vulnerability using the IITD, CASIA-IrisV4-Thousand and Synthetic datasets, and observe that an alpha-wolf (from two wolves) can match upto 71 identities @FMR=0.001%, while an alpha-mammal (from two identities) can match upto 133 other identities @FMR=0.01% on the IITD dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [455]
标题:  GPT-4V(ision) Unsuitable for Clinical Care and Education: A  Clinician-Evaluated Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12046
作者:  Senthujan Senkaiahliyan,  Augustin Toma,  Jun Ma,  An-Wen Chan,  Andrew Ha,  Kevin R. An,  Hrishikesh Suresh,  Barry Rubin,  Bo Wang
备注:  
Abstract:OpenAI's large multimodal model, GPT-4V(ision), was recently developed for general image interpretation. However, less is known about its capabilities with medical image interpretation and diagnosis. Board-certified physicians and senior residents assessed GPT-4V's proficiency across a range of medical conditions using imaging modalities such as CT scans, MRIs, ECGs, and clinical photographs. Although GPT-4V is able to identify and explain medical images, its diagnostic accuracy and clinical decision-making abilities are poor, posing risks to patient safety. Despite the potential that large language models may have in enhancing medical education and delivery, the current limitations of GPT-4V in interpreting medical images reinforces the importance of appropriate caution when using it for clinical decision-making.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [456]
标题:  Determining Intent of Changes to Ascertain Fake Crowdsourced Image  Services
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12045
作者:  Muhammad Umair,  Athman Bouguettaya,  Abdallah Lakhdari
备注:  
Abstract:We propose a novel framework for crowdsourced images to determine the likelihood of an image being fake. We use a service-oriented approach to model and represent crowdsourced images uploaded on social media, as image services. Trust may, in some circumstances, be determined by using only the non-functional attributes of an image service, i.e., image metadata. We define intention of changes as a key parameter to ascertain fake image services. A novel framework is proposed to estimate the intention of underlying changes considering change in semantics of an image. Our experiments show high accuracy using a large real dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [457]
标题:  Mobile Application for Oral Disease Detection using Federated Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12044
作者:  Shankara Narayanan V,  Sneha Varsha M,  Syed Ashfaq Ahmed,  Guruprakash J
备注:  
Abstract:The mouth, often regarded as a window to the internal state of the body, plays an important role in reflecting one's overall health. Poor oral hygiene has far-reaching consequences, contributing to severe conditions like heart disease, cancer, and diabetes, while inadequate care leads to discomfort, pain, and costly treatments. Federated Learning (FL) for object detection can be utilized for this use case due to the sensitivity of the oral image data of the patients. FL ensures data privacy by storing the images used for object detection on the local device and trains the model on the edge. The updated weights are federated to a central server where all the collected weights are updated via The Federated Averaging algorithm. Finally, we have developed a mobile app named OralH which provides user-friendly solutions, allowing people to conduct self-assessments through mouth scans and providing quick oral health insights. Upon detection of the issues, the application alerts the user about potential oral health concerns or diseases and provides details about dental clinics in the user's locality. Designed as a Progressive Web Application (PWA), the platform ensures ubiquitous access, catering to users across devices for a seamless experience. The application aims to provide state-of-the-art segmentation and detection techniques, leveraging the YOLOv8 object detection model to identify oral hygiene issues and diseases. This study deals with the benefits of leveraging FL in healthcare with promising real-world results.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [458]
标题:  Solving Combinatorial Pricing Problems using Embedded Dynamic  Programming Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12923
作者:  Quang Minh Bui,  Margarida Carvalho,  José Neto
备注:  
Abstract:The combinatorial pricing problem (CPP) is a bilevel problem in which the leader maximizes their revenue by imposing tolls on certain items that they can control. Based on the tolls set by the leader, the follower selects a subset of items corresponding to an optimal solution of a combinatorial optimization problem. To accomplish the leader's goal, the tolls need to be sufficiently low to discourage the follower from choosing the items offered by the competitors. In this paper, we derive a single-level reformulation for the CPP by rewriting the follower's problem as a longest path problem using a dynamic programming model, and then taking its dual and applying strong duality. We proceed to solve the reformulation in a dynamic fashion with a cutting plane method. We apply this methodology to 2 distinct dynamic programming models, namely, a novel formulation designated as selection diagram and the well-known decision diagram. We also produce numerical results to evaluate their performances across 3 different specializations of the CPP and a closely related problem that is the knapsack interdiction problem. Our results showcase the potential of the 2 proposed reformulations over the natural value function approach, expanding the set of tools to solve combinatorial bilevel programs.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [459]
标题:  Primal Methods for Variational Inequality Problems with Functional  Constraints
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12859
作者:  Liang Zhang,  Niao He,  Michael Muehlebach
备注:  
Abstract:Constrained variational inequality problems are recognized for their broad applications across various fields including machine learning and operations research. First-order methods have emerged as the standard approach for solving these problems due to their simplicity and scalability. However, they typically rely on projection or linear minimization oracles to navigate the feasible set, which becomes computationally expensive in practical scenarios featuring multiple functional constraints. Existing efforts to tackle such functional constrained variational inequality problems have centered on primal-dual algorithms grounded in the Lagrangian function. These algorithms along with their theoretical analysis often require the existence and prior knowledge of the optimal Lagrange multipliers. In this work, we propose a simple primal method, termed Constrained Gradient Method (CGM), for addressing functional constrained variational inequality problems, without necessitating any information on the optimal Lagrange multipliers. We establish a non-asymptotic convergence analysis of the algorithm for variational inequality problems with monotone operators under smooth constraints. Remarkably, our algorithms match the complexity of projection-based methods in terms of operator queries for both monotone and strongly monotone settings, while utilizing significantly cheaper oracles based on quadratic programming. Furthermore, we provide several numerical examples to evaluate the efficacy of our algorithms.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [460]
标题:  Generative Enhancement for 3D Medical Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12852
作者:  Lingting Zhu,  Noel Codella,  Dongdong Chen,  Zhenchao Jin,  Lu Yuan,  Lequan Yu
备注:  19 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:The limited availability of 3D medical image datasets, due to privacy concerns and high collection or annotation costs, poses significant challenges in the field of medical imaging. While a promising alternative is the use of synthesized medical data, there are few solutions for realistic 3D medical image synthesis due to difficulties in backbone design and fewer 3D training samples compared to 2D counterparts. In this paper, we propose GEM-3D, a novel generative approach to the synthesis of 3D medical images and the enhancement of existing datasets using conditional diffusion models. Our method begins with a 2D slice, noted as the informed slice to serve the patient prior, and propagates the generation process using a 3D segmentation mask. By decomposing the 3D medical images into masks and patient prior information, GEM-3D offers a flexible yet effective solution for generating versatile 3D images from existing datasets. GEM-3D can enable dataset enhancement by combining informed slice selection and generation at random positions, along with editable mask volumes to introduce large variations in diffusion sampling. Moreover, as the informed slice contains patient-wise information, GEM-3D can also facilitate counterfactual image synthesis and dataset-level de-enhancement with desired control. Experiments on brain MRI and abdomen CT images demonstrate that GEM-3D is capable of synthesizing high-quality 3D medical images with volumetric consistency, offering a straightforward solution for dataset enhancement during inference. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [461]
标题:  A new framework for constrained optimization via feedback control of  Lagrange multipliers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12738
作者:  V. Cerone,  S. M. Fosson,  S. Pirrera,  D. Regruto
备注:  submitted for possible publication to IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control
Abstract:The continuous-time analysis of existing iterative algorithms for optimization has a long history. This work proposes a novel continuous-time control-theoretic framework for equality-constrained optimization. The key idea is to design a feedback control system where the Lagrange multipliers are the control input, and the output represents the constraints. The system converges to a stationary point of the constrained optimization problem through suitable regulation. Regarding the Lagrange multipliers, we consider two control laws: proportional-integral control and feedback linearization. These choices give rise to a family of different methods. We rigorously develop the related algorithms, theoretically analyze their convergence and present several numerical experiments to support their effectiveness concerning the state-of-the-art approaches.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [462]
标题:  Tighter Confidence Bounds for Sequential Kernel Regression
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12732
作者:  Hamish Flynn,  David Reeb
备注:  22 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:Confidence bounds are an essential tool for rigorously quantifying the uncertainty of predictions. In this capacity, they can inform the exploration-exploitation trade-off and form a core component in many sequential learning and decision-making algorithms. Tighter confidence bounds give rise to algorithms with better empirical performance and better performance guarantees. In this work, we use martingale tail bounds and finite-dimensional reformulations of infinite-dimensional convex programs to establish new confidence bounds for sequential kernel regression. We prove that our new confidence bounds are always tighter than existing ones in this setting. We apply our confidence bounds to the kernel bandit problem, where future actions depend on the previous history. When our confidence bounds replace existing ones, the KernelUCB (GP-UCB) algorithm has better empirical performance, a matching worst-case performance guarantee and comparable computational cost. Our new confidence bounds can be used as a generic tool to design improved algorithms for other kernelised learning and decision-making problems.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [463]
标题:  Posterior Uncertainty Quantification in Neural Networks using Data  Augmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12729
作者:  Luhuan Wu,  Sinead Williamson
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we approach the problem of uncertainty quantification in deep learning through a predictive framework, which captures uncertainty in model parameters by specifying our assumptions about the predictive distribution of unseen future data. Under this view, we show that deep ensembling (Lakshminarayanan et al., 2017) is a fundamentally mis-specified model class, since it assumes that future data are supported on existing observations only -- a situation rarely encountered in practice. To address this limitation, we propose MixupMP, a method that constructs a more realistic predictive distribution using popular data augmentation techniques. MixupMP operates as a drop-in replacement for deep ensembles, where each ensemble member is trained on a random simulation from this predictive distribution. Grounded in the recently-proposed framework of Martingale posteriors (Fong et al., 2023), MixupMP returns samples from an implicitly defined Bayesian posterior. Our empirical analysis showcases that MixupMP achieves superior predictive performance and uncertainty quantification on various image classification datasets, when compared with existing Bayesian and non-Bayesian approaches.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [464]
标题:  Some geometric and topological data-driven methods in robot motion path  planning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12725
作者:  Boris Goldfarb
备注:  21 pages, 6 figures, to appear in a book project on Topology, Geometry and AI in the EMS Series in Industrial and Applied Mathematics, edited by Michael Farber and Jes\'us Gonz\'alez
Abstract:Motion path planning is an intrinsically geometric problem which is central for design of robot systems. Since the early years of AI, robotics together with computer vision have been the areas of computer science that drove its development. Many questions that arise, such as existence, optimality, and diversity of motion paths in the configuration space that describes feasible robot configurations, are of topological nature. The recent advances in topological data analysis and related metric geometry, topology and combinatorics have provided new tools to address these engineering tasks. We will survey some questions, issues, recent work and promising directions in data-driven geometric and topological methods with some emphasis on the use of discrete Morse theory.
Subjects: Algebraic Topology (math.AT); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [465]
标题:  Federated Semi-supervised Learning for Medical Image Segmentation with  intra-client and inter-client Consistency
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12695
作者:  Yubin Zheng,  Peng Tang,  Tianjie Ju,  Weidong Qiu,  Bo Yan
备注:  Working in progress
Abstract:Medical image segmentation plays a vital role in clinic disease diagnosis and medical image analysis. However, labeling medical images for segmentation task is tough due to the indispensable domain expertise of radiologists. Furthermore, considering the privacy and sensitivity of medical images, it is impractical to build a centralized segmentation dataset from different medical institutions. Federated learning aims to train a shared model of isolated clients without local data exchange which aligns well with the scarcity and privacy characteristics of medical data. To solve the problem of labeling hard, many advanced semi-supervised methods have been proposed in a centralized data setting. As for federated learning, how to conduct semi-supervised learning under this distributed scenario is worth investigating. In this work, we propose a novel federated semi-supervised learning framework for medical image segmentation. The intra-client and inter-client consistency learning are introduced to smooth predictions at the data level and avoid confirmation bias of local models. They are achieved with the assistance of a Variational Autoencoder (VAE) trained collaboratively by clients. The added VAE model plays three roles: 1) extracting latent low-dimensional features of all labeled and unlabeled data; 2) performing a novel type of data augmentation in calculating intra-client consistency loss; 3) utilizing the generative ability of itself to conduct inter-client consistency distillation. The proposed framework is compared with other federated semi-supervised or self-supervised learning methods. The experimental results illustrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art method while avoiding a lot of computation and communication overhead.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [466]
标题:  Some properties of Higman-Thompson monoids and digital circuits
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12674
作者:  J.C. Birget
备注:  59 p
Abstract:We define various monoid versions of the R. Thompson group $V$, and prove connections with monoids of acyclic digital circuits. We show that the monoid $M_{2,1}$ (based on partial functions) is not embeddable into Thompson's monoid ${\sf tot}M_{2,1}$, but that ${\sf tot}M_{2,1}$ has a submonoid that maps homomorphically onto $M_{2,1}$. This leads to an efficient completion algorithm for partial functions and partial circuits. We show that the union of partial circuits with disjoint domains is an element of $M_{2,1}$, and conversely, every element of $M_{2,1}$ can be decomposed efficiently into a union of partial circuits with disjoint domains.
Subjects: Group Theory (math.GR); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)

**编号**: [467]
标题:  Zeolite Adsorption Property Prediction using Deep Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12659
作者:  Marko Petković,  José Manuel Vicent-Luna,  Vlado Menkovski,  Sofía Calero
备注:  
Abstract:The ability to efficiently predict adsorption properties of zeolites can be of large benefit in accelerating the design process of novel materials. The existing configuration space for these materials is wide, while existing molecular simulation methods are computationally expensive. In this work, we propose a model which is 4 to 5 orders of magnitude faster at adsorption properties compared to molecular simulations. To validate the model, we generated datasets containing various aluminium configurations for the MOR, MFI, RHO and ITW zeolites along with their heat of adsorptions and Henry coefficients for CO$_2$, obtained from Monte Carlo simulations. The predictions obtained from the Machine Learning model are in agreement with the values obtained from the Monte Carlo simulations, confirming that the model can be used for property prediction. Furthermore, we show that the model can be used for identifying adsorption sites. Finally, we evaluate the capability of our model for generating novel zeolite configurations by using it in combination with a genetic algorithm.
Subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [468]
标题:  Reproducing the Acoustic Velocity Vectors in a Circular Listening Area
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12630
作者:  Jiarui Wang,  Thushara Abhayapala,  Jihui Aimee Zhang,  Prasanga Samarasinghe
备注:  Submitted to EUSIPCO 2024
Abstract:Acoustic velocity vectors are important for human's localization of sound at low frequencies. This paper proposes a sound field reproduction algorithm, which matches the acoustic velocity vectors in a circular listening area. In previous work, acoustic velocity vectors are matched either at sweet spots or on the boundary of the listening area. Sweet spots restrict listener's movement, whereas measuring the acoustic velocity vectors on the boundary requires complicated measurement setup. This paper proposes the cylindrical harmonic coefficients of the acoustic velocity vectors in a circular area (CHV coefficients), which are calculated from the cylindrical harmonic coefficients of the global pressure (global CHP coefficients) by using the sound field translation formula. The global CHP coefficients can be measured by a circular microphone array, which can be bought off-the-shelf. By matching the CHV coefficients, the acoustic velocity vectors are reproduced throughout the listening area. Hence, listener's movements are allowed. Simulations show that at low frequency, where the acoustic velocity vectors are the dominant factor for localization, the proposed reproduction method based on the CHV coefficients results in higher accuracy in reproduced acoustic velocity vectors when compared with traditional method based on the global CHP coefficients.
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Sound (cs.SD)

**编号**: [469]
标题:  Exact model reduction for conditional quantum dynamics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12575
作者:  Tommaso Grigoletto,  Francesco Ticozzi
备注:  
Abstract:Leveraging an algebraic approach built on minimal realizations and conditional expectations in quantum probability, we propose a method to reduce the dimension of quantum filters while maintaining the correct distributions on the outcomes of interest. The method is presented for general quantum systems whose dynamics depend on measurement outcomes, hinges on a system-theoretic observability analysis, and is tested on prototypical examples.
Subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [470]
标题:  The SIS process on Erdös-Rényi graphs: determining the infected  fraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12560
作者:  O.S. Awolude,  E. Cator,  H. Don
备注:  46 pages, 25 figures
Abstract:The SIS process on a graph poses many challenges. An important problem is to identify characteristics of the metastable behaviour. Existing mean-field methods (such as Heterogeneous Mean Field and the N-intertwined Mean Field Approximation) overestimate the metastable infected fraction, because they ignore correlations. Especially in sparse graphs, this leads to serious inaccuracies. We propose quenched and annealed methods incorporating correlations and giving significantly more accurate approximations. We use the Erdös-Rényi graph as a test case, but the methods can be generalized easily. Our methods are computationally very friendly and can be applied to fairly large graphs, in contrast with some other second-order mean field approximations.
Subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)

**编号**: [471]
标题:  Low-Trace Adaptation of Zero-shot Self-supervised Blind Image Denoising
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12382
作者:  Jintong Hu,  Bin Xia,  Bingchen Li,  Wenming Yang
备注:  11pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Deep learning-based denoiser has been the focus of recent development on image denoising. In the past few years, there has been increasing interest in developing self-supervised denoising networks that only require noisy images, without the need for clean ground truth for training. However, a performance gap remains between current self-supervised methods and their supervised counterparts. Additionally, these methods commonly depend on assumptions about noise characteristics, thereby constraining their applicability in real-world scenarios. Inspired by the properties of the Frobenius norm expansion, we discover that incorporating a trace term reduces the optimization goal disparity between self-supervised and supervised methods, thereby enhancing the performance of self-supervised learning. To exploit this insight, we propose a trace-constraint loss function and design the low-trace adaptation Noise2Noise (LoTA-N2N) model that bridges the gap between self-supervised and supervised learning. Furthermore, we have discovered that several existing self-supervised denoising frameworks naturally fall within the proposed trace-constraint loss as subcases. Extensive experiments conducted on natural and confocal image datasets indicate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance within the realm of zero-shot self-supervised image denoising approaches, without relying on any assumptions regarding the noise.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [472]
标题:  Distributionally Robust Density Control with Wasserstein Ambiguity Sets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12378
作者:  Joshua Pilipovsky,  Panagiotis Tsiotras
备注:  CDC 2024
Abstract:Precise control under uncertainty requires a good understanding and characterization of the noise affecting the system. This paper studies the problem of steering state distributions of dynamical systems subject to partially known uncertainties. We model the distributional uncertainty of the noise process in terms of Wasserstein ambiguity sets, which, based on recent results, have been shown to be an effective means of capturing and propagating uncertainty through stochastic LTI systems. To this end, we propagate the distributional uncertainty of the state through the dynamical system, and, using an affine feedback control law, we steer the ambiguity set of the state to a prescribed, terminal ambiguity set. We also enforce distributionally robust CVaR constraints for the transient motion of the state so as to reside within a prescribed constraint space. The resulting optimization problem is formulated as a semi-definite program, which can be solved efficiently using standard off-the-shelf solvers. We illustrate the proposed distributionally-robust framework on a quadrotor landing problem subject to wind turbulence.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [473]
标题:  Semisupervised score based matching algorithm to evaluate the effect of  public health interventions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12367
作者:  Hongzhe Zhang,  Jiasheng Shi,  Jing Huang
备注:  
Abstract:Multivariate matching algorithms "pair" similar study units in an observational study to remove potential bias and confounding effects caused by the absence of randomizations. In one-to-one multivariate matching algorithms, a large number of "pairs" to be matched could mean both the information from a large sample and a large number of tasks, and therefore, to best match the pairs, such a matching algorithm with efficiency and comparatively limited auxiliary matching knowledge provided through a "training" set of paired units by domain experts, is practically intriguing. We proposed a novel one-to-one matching algorithm based on a quadratic score function $S_{\beta}(x_i,x_j)= \beta^T (x_i-x_j)(x_i-x_j)^T \beta$. The weights $\beta$, which can be interpreted as a variable importance measure, are designed to minimize the score difference between paired training units while maximizing the score difference between unpaired training units. Further, in the typical but intricate case where the training set is much smaller than the unpaired set, we propose a \underline{s}emisupervised \underline{c}ompanion \underline{o}ne-\underline{t}o-\underline{o}ne \underline{m}atching \underline{a}lgorithm (SCOTOMA) that makes the best use of the unpaired units. The proposed weight estimator is proved to be consistent when the truth matching criterion is indeed the quadratic score function. When the model assumptions are violated, we demonstrate that the proposed algorithm still outperforms some popular competing matching algorithms through a series of simulations. We applied the proposed algorithm to a real-world study to investigate the effect of in-person schooling on community Covid-19 transmission rate for policy making purpose.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [474]
标题:  A New Intelligent Reflecting Surface-Aided Electromagnetic Stealth  Strategy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12352
作者:  Xue Xiong,  Beixiong Zheng,  A. Lee Swindlehurst,  Jie Tang,  Wen Wu
备注:  5 pages, 4 figures
Abstract:Electromagnetic wave absorbing material (EWAM) plays an essential role in manufacturing stealth aircraft, which can achieve the electromagnetic stealth (ES) by reducing the strength of the signal reflected back to the radar system. However, the stealth performance is limited by the coating thickness, incident wave angles, and working frequencies. To tackle these limitations, we propose a new intelligent reflecting surface (IRS)-aided ES system where an IRS is deployed at the target to synergize with EWAM for effectively mitigating the echo signal and thus reducing the radar detection probability. Considering the monotonic relationship between the detection probability and the received signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) at the radar, we formulate an optimization problem that minimizes the SNR under the reflection constraint of each IRS element, and a semi-closed-form solution is derived by using Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions. Simulation results validate the superiority of the proposed IRS-aided ES system compared to various benchmarks.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [475]
标题:  Stochastic Halpern iteration in normed spaces and applications to  reinforcement learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12338
作者:  Mario Bravo,  Juan Pablo Contreras
备注:  29 pages
Abstract:We analyze the oracle complexity of the stochastic Halpern iteration with variance reduction, where we aim to approximate fixed-points of nonexpansive and contractive operators in a normed finite-dimensional space. We show that if the underlying stochastic oracle is with uniformly bounded variance, our method exhibits an overall oracle complexity of $\tilde{O}(\varepsilon^{-5})$, improving recent rates established for the stochastic Krasnoselskii-Mann iteration. Also, we establish a lower bound of $\Omega(\varepsilon^{-3})$, which applies to a wide range of algorithms, including all averaged iterations even with minibatching. Using a suitable modification of our approach, we derive a $O(\varepsilon^{-2}(1-\gamma)^{-3})$ complexity bound in the case in which the operator is a $\gamma$-contraction. As an application, we propose new synchronous algorithms for average reward and discounted reward Markov decision processes. In particular, for the average reward, our method improves on the best-known sample complexity.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [476]
标题:  Deep Few-view High-resolution Photon-counting Extremity CT at Halved  Dose for a Clinical Trial
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12331
作者:  Mengzhou Li,  Chuang Niu,  Ge Wang,  Maya R Amma,  Krishna M Chapagain,  Stefan Gabrielson,  Andrew Li,  Kevin Jonker,  Niels de Ruiter,  Jennifer A Clark,  Phil Butler,  Anthony Butler,  Hengyong Yu
备注:  9 figures, 5 tables
Abstract:The latest X-ray photon-counting computed tomography (PCCT) for extremity allows multi-energy high-resolution (HR) imaging for tissue characterization and material decomposition. However, both radiation dose and imaging speed need improvement for contrast-enhanced and other studies. Despite the success of deep learning methods for 2D few-view reconstruction, applying them to HR volumetric reconstruction of extremity scans for clinical diagnosis has been limited due to GPU memory constraints, training data scarcity, and domain gap issues. In this paper, we propose a deep learning-based approach for PCCT image reconstruction at halved dose and doubled speed in a New Zealand clinical trial. Particularly, we present a patch-based volumetric refinement network to alleviate the GPU memory limitation, train network with synthetic data, and use model-based iterative refinement to bridge the gap between synthetic and real-world data. The simulation and phantom experiments demonstrate consistently improved results under different acquisition conditions on both in- and off-domain structures using a fixed network. The image quality of 8 patients from the clinical trial are evaluated by three radiologists in comparison with the standard image reconstruction with a full-view dataset. It is shown that our proposed approach is essentially identical to or better than the clinical benchmark in terms of diagnostic image quality scores. Our approach has a great potential to improve the safety and efficiency of PCCT without compromising image quality.
Subjects: Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [477]
标题:  Estimation and Analysis of Slice Propagation Uncertainty in 3D Anatomy  Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12290
作者:  Rachaell Nihalaani,  Tushar Kataria,  Jadie Adams,  Shireen Y. Elhabian
备注:  13 pages including Supplementary, 4 figures
Abstract:Supervised methods for 3D anatomy segmentation demonstrate superior performance but are often limited by the availability of annotated data. This limitation has led to a growing interest in self-supervised approaches in tandem with the abundance of available un-annotated data. Slice propagation has emerged as an self-supervised approach that leverages slice registration as a self-supervised task to achieve full anatomy segmentation with minimal supervision. This approach significantly reduces the need for domain expertise, time, and the cost associated with building fully annotated datasets required for training segmentation networks. However, this shift toward reduced supervision via deterministic networks raises concerns about the trustworthiness and reliability of predictions, especially when compared with more accurate supervised approaches. To address this concern, we propose the integration of calibrated uncertainty quantification (UQ) into slice propagation methods, providing insights into the model's predictive reliability and confidence levels. Incorporating uncertainty measures enhances user confidence in self-supervised approaches, thereby improving their practical applicability. We conducted experiments on three datasets for 3D abdominal segmentation using five UQ methods. The results illustrate that incorporating UQ improves not only model trustworthiness, but also segmentation accuracy. Furthermore, our analysis reveals various failure modes of slice propagation methods that might not be immediately apparent to end-users. This study opens up new research avenues to improve the accuracy and trustworthiness of slice propagation methods.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [478]
标题:  A Multi-loudspeaker Binaural Room Impulse Response Dataset with  High-Resolution Translational and Rotational Head Coordinates in a Listening  Room
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12258
作者:  Yue Qiao,  Ryan Miguel Gonzales,  Edgar Choueiri
备注:  Submitted to Frontiers in Signal Processing
Abstract:Data report for the 3D3A Lab Binaural Room Impulse Response (BRIR) Dataset (this https URL).
Subjects: Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Sound (cs.SD)

**编号**: [479]
标题:  Adaptive LPD Radar Waveform Design with Generative Deep Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12254
作者:  Matthew R. Ziemann,  Christopher A. Metzler
备注:  11 pages, 11 figures
Abstract:We propose a novel, learning-based method for adaptively generating low probability of detection (LPD) radar waveforms that blend into their operating environment. Our waveforms are designed to follow a distribution that is indistinguishable from the ambient radio frequency (RF) background -- while still being effective at ranging and sensing. To do so, we use an unsupervised, adversarial learning framework; our generator network produces waveforms designed to confuse a critic network, which is optimized to differentiate generated waveforms from the background. To ensure our generated waveforms are still effective for sensing, we introduce and minimize an ambiguity function-based loss on the generated waveforms. We evaluate the performance of our method by comparing the single-pulse detectability of our generated waveforms with traditional LPD waveforms using a separately trained detection neural network. We find that our method can generate LPD waveforms that reduce detectability by up to 90% while simultaneously offering improved ambiguity function (sensing) characteristics. Our framework also provides a mechanism to trade-off detectability and sensing performance.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [480]
标题:  Useful Compact Representations for Data-Fitting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12206
作者:  Johannes J. Brust
备注:  
Abstract:For minimization problems without 2nd derivative information, methods that estimate Hessian ma- trices can be very effective. However, conventional techniques generate dense matrices that are prohibitive for large problems. Limited-memory compact representations express the dense arrays in terms of a low rank representation and have become the state-of-the-art for software implementations on large deterministic problems. We develop new compact representations that are parameterized by a choice of vectors and that reduce to existing well known formulas for special choices. We demonstrate effectiveness of the compact representations for large eigenvalue computations, tensor factorizations and nonlinear regressions.
Subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Computation (stat.CO)

**编号**: [481]
标题:  PackIt! Gamified Rectangle Packing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12195
作者:  Thomas Garrison,  Marijn J.H. Heule,  Bernardo Subercaseaux
备注:  28 pages, 10 figures, Submitted to Fun with Algorithms
Abstract:We present and analyze PackIt!, a turn-based game consisting of packing rectangles on an $n \times n$ grid. PackIt! can be easily played on paper, either as a competitive two-player game or in \emph{solitaire} fashion. On the $t$-th turn, a rectangle of area $t$ or $t+1$ must be placed in the grid. In the two-player format of PackIt! whichever player places a rectangle last wins, whereas the goal in the solitaire variant is to perfectly pack the $n \times n$ grid. We analyze conditions for the existence of a perfect packing over $n \times n$, then present an automated reasoning approach that allows finding perfect games of PackIt! up to $n = 50$ which includes a novel SAT-encoding technique of independent interest, and conclude by proving an NP-hardness result.
Subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [482]
标题:  Approximation of RKHS Functionals by Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12187
作者:  Tian-Yi Zhou,  Namjoon Suh,  Guang Cheng,  Xiaoming Huo
备注:  
Abstract:Motivated by the abundance of functional data such as time series and images, there has been a growing interest in integrating such data into neural networks and learning maps from function spaces to R (i.e., functionals). In this paper, we study the approximation of functionals on reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces (RKHS's) using neural networks. We establish the universality of the approximation of functionals on the RKHS's. Specifically, we derive explicit error bounds for those induced by inverse multiquadric, Gaussian, and Sobolev kernels. Moreover, we apply our findings to functional regression, proving that neural networks can accurately approximate the regression maps in generalized functional linear models. Existing works on functional learning require integration-type basis function expansions with a set of pre-specified basis functions. By leveraging the interpolating orthogonal projections in RKHS's, our proposed network is much simpler in that we use point evaluations to replace basis function expansions.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistics Theory (math.ST)

**编号**: [483]
标题:  Fragile Stable Matchings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12183
作者:  Kirill Rudov
备注:  
Abstract:We show how fragile stable matchings are in a decentralized one-to-one matching setting. The classical work of Roth and Vande Vate (1990) suggests simple decentralized dynamics in which randomly-chosen blocking pairs match successively. Such decentralized interactions guarantee convergence to a stable matching. Our first theorem shows that, under mild conditions, any unstable matching -- including a small perturbation of a stable matching -- can culminate in any stable matching through these dynamics. Our second theorem highlights another aspect of fragility: stabilization may take a long time. Even in markets with a unique stable matching, where the dynamics always converge to the same matching, decentralized interactions can require an exponentially long duration to converge. A small perturbation of a stable matching may lead the market away from stability and involve a sizable proportion of mismatched participants for extended periods. Our results hold for a broad class of dynamics.
Subjects: Theoretical Economics (econ.TH); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [484]
标题:  Generalizing deep learning models for medical image classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12167
作者:  Matta Sarah,  Lamard Mathieu,  Zhang Philippe,  Alexandre Le Guilcher,  Laurent Borderie,  Béatrice Cochener,  Gwenolé Quellec
备注:  
Abstract:Numerous Deep Learning (DL) models have been developed for a large spectrum of medical image analysis applications, which promises to reshape various facets of medical practice. Despite early advances in DL model validation and implementation, which encourage healthcare institutions to adopt them, some fundamental questions remain: are the DL models capable of generalizing? What causes a drop in DL model performances? How to overcome the DL model performance drop? Medical data are dynamic and prone to domain shift, due to multiple factors such as updates to medical equipment, new imaging workflow, and shifts in patient demographics or populations can induce this drift over time. In this paper, we review recent developments in generalization methods for DL-based classification models. We also discuss future challenges, including the need for improved evaluation protocols and benchmarks, and envisioned future developments to achieve robust, generalized models for medical image classification.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [485]
标题:  Variational Approach for Efficient KL Divergence Estimation in Dirichlet  Mixture Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12158
作者:  Samyajoy Pal,  Christian Heumann
备注:  
Abstract:This study tackles the efficient estimation of Kullback-Leibler (KL) Divergence in Dirichlet Mixture Models (DMM), crucial for clustering compositional data. Despite the significance of DMMs, obtaining an analytically tractable solution for KL Divergence has proven elusive. Past approaches relied on computationally demanding Monte Carlo methods, motivating our introduction of a novel variational approach. Our method offers a closed-form solution, significantly enhancing computational efficiency for swift model comparisons and robust estimation evaluations. Validation using real and simulated data showcases its superior efficiency and accuracy over traditional Monte Carlo-based methods, opening new avenues for rapid exploration of diverse DMM models and advancing statistical analyses of compositional data.
Subjects: Machine Learning (stat.ML); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistics Theory (math.ST)

**编号**: [486]
标题:  Light Curve Classification with DistClassiPy: a new distance-based  classifier
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12120
作者:  Siddharth Chaini,  Ashish Mahabal,  Ajit Kembhavi,  Federica B. Bianco
备注:  Submitted to Astronomy and Computing. 23 pages, 19 figures
Abstract:The rise of synoptic sky surveys has ushered in an era of big data in time-domain astronomy, making data science and machine learning essential tools for studying celestial objects. Tree-based (e.g. Random Forests) and deep learning models represent the current standard in the field. We explore the use of different distance metrics to aid in the classification of objects. For this, we developed a new distance metric based classifier called DistClassiPy. The direct use of distance metrics is an approach that has not been explored in time-domain astronomy, but distance-based methods can aid in increasing the interpretability of the classification result and decrease the computational costs. In particular, we classify light curves of variable stars by comparing the distances between objects of different classes. Using 18 distance metrics applied to a catalog of 6,000 variable stars in 10 classes, we demonstrate classification and dimensionality reduction. We show that this classifier meets state-of-the-art performance but has lower computational requirements and improved interpretability. We have made DistClassiPy open-source and accessible at this https URL with the goal of broadening its applications to other classification scenarios within and beyond astronomy.
Subjects: Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [487]
标题:  Transfer Learning for T-Cell Response Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12117
作者:  Josua Stadelmaier (University of Tübingen),  Brandon Malone (NEC OncoImmunity),  Ralf Eggeling (University of Tübingen)
备注:  20 pages, 9 figures. Source code, compiled data, final model, and a video presentation are available under this https URL
Abstract:We study the prediction of T-cell response for specific given peptides, which could, among other applications, be a crucial step towards the development of personalized cancer vaccines. It is a challenging task due to limited, heterogeneous training data featuring a multi-domain structure; such data entail the danger of shortcut learning, where models learn general characteristics of peptide sources, such as the source organism, rather than specific peptide characteristics associated with T-cell response. Using a transformer model for T-cell response prediction, we show that the danger of inflated predictive performance is not merely theoretical but occurs in practice. Consequently, we propose a domain-aware evaluation scheme. We then study different transfer learning techniques to deal with the multi-domain structure and shortcut learning. We demonstrate a per-source fine tuning approach to be effective across a wide range of peptide sources and further show that our final model outperforms existing state-of-the-art approaches for predicting T-cell responses for human peptides.
Subjects: Cell Behavior (q-bio.CB); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [488]
标题:  Deep learning automates Cobb angle measurement compared with  multi-expert observers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12115
作者:  Keyu Li,  Hanxue Gu,  Roy Colglazier,  Robert Lark,  Elizabeth Hubbard,  Robert French,  Denise Smith,  Jikai Zhang,  Erin McCrum,  Anthony Catanzano,  Joseph Cao,  Leah Waldman,  Maciej A. Mazurowski,  Benjamin Alman
备注:  17 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:Scoliosis, a prevalent condition characterized by abnormal spinal curvature leading to deformity, requires precise assessment methods for effective diagnosis and management. The Cobb angle is a widely used scoliosis quantification method that measures the degree of curvature between the tilted vertebrae. Yet, manual measuring of Cobb angles is time-consuming and labor-intensive, fraught with significant interobserver and intraobserver variability. To address these challenges and the lack of interpretability found in certain existing automated methods, we have created fully automated software that not only precisely measures the Cobb angle but also provides clear visualizations of these measurements. This software integrates deep neural network-based spine region detection and segmentation, spine centerline identification, pinpointing the most significantly tilted vertebrae, and direct visualization of Cobb angles on the original images. Upon comparison with the assessments of 7 expert readers, our algorithm exhibited a mean deviation in Cobb angle measurements of 4.17 degrees, notably surpassing the manual approach's average intra-reader discrepancy of 5.16 degrees. The algorithm also achieved intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) exceeding 0.96 and Pearson correlation coefficients above 0.944, reflecting robust agreement with expert assessments and superior measurement reliability. Through the comprehensive reader study and statistical analysis, we believe this algorithm not only ensures a higher consensus with expert readers but also enhances interpretability and reproducibility during assessments. It holds significant promise for clinical application, potentially aiding physicians in more accurate scoliosis assessment and diagnosis, thereby improving patient care.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [489]
标题:  Scenarios for the Transition to AGI
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12107
作者:  Anton Korinek,  Donghyun Suh
备注:  
Abstract:We analyze how output and wages behave under different scenarios for technological progress that may culminate in Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), defined as the ability of AI systems to perform all tasks that humans can perform. We assume that human work can be decomposed into atomistic tasks that differ in their complexity. Advances in technology make ever more complex tasks amenable to automation. The effects on wages depend on a race between automation and capital accumulation. If the distribution of task complexity exhibits a sufficiently thick infinite tail, then there is always enough work for humans, and wages may rise forever. By contrast, if the complexity of tasks that humans can perform is bounded and full automation is reached, then wages collapse. But declines may occur even before if large-scale automation outpaces capital accumulation and makes labor too abundant. Automating productivity growth may lead to broad-based gains in the returns to all factors. By contrast, bottlenecks to growth from irreproducible scarce factors may exacerbate the decline in wages.
Subjects: General Economics (econ.GN); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [490]
标题:  Learning Macroeconomic Policies based on Microfoundations: A Stackelberg  Mean Field Game Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12093
作者:  Qirui Mi,  Zhiyu Zhao,  Siyu Xia,  Yan Song,  Jun Wang,  Haifeng Zhang
备注:  15 pages, 7 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:Effective macroeconomic policies play a crucial role in promoting economic growth and social stability. This paper models the optimal macroeconomic policy problem based on the \textit{Stackelberg Mean Field Game} (SMFG), where the government acts as the leader in policy-making, and large-scale households dynamically respond as followers. This modeling method captures the asymmetric dynamic game between the government and large-scale households, and interpretably evaluates the effects of macroeconomic policies based on microfoundations, which is difficult for existing methods to achieve. We also propose a solution for SMFGs, incorporating pre-training on real data and a model-free \textit{Stackelberg mean-field reinforcement learning }(SMFRL) algorithm, which operates independently of prior environmental knowledge and transitions. Our experimental results showcase the superiority of the SMFG method over other economic policies in terms of performance, efficiency-equity tradeoff, and SMFG assumption analysis. This paper significantly contributes to the domain of AI for economics by providing a powerful tool for modeling and solving optimal macroeconomic policies.
Subjects: Theoretical Economics (econ.TH); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [491]
标题:  A GNN Approach for Cell-Free Massive MIMO
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12062
作者:  Lou Salaun,  Hong Yang,  Shashwat Mishra,  Chung Shue Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Beyond 5G wireless technology Cell-Free Massive MIMO (CFmMIMO) downlink relies on carefully designed precoders and power control to attain uniformly high rate coverage. Many such power control problems can be calculated via second order cone programming (SOCP). In practice, several order of magnitude faster numerical procedure is required because power control has to be rapidly updated to adapt to changing channel conditions. We propose a Graph Neural Network (GNN) based solution to replace SOCP. Specifically, we develop a GNN to obtain downlink max-min power control for a CFmMIMO with maximum ratio transmission (MRT) beamforming. We construct a graph representation of the problem that properly captures the dominant dependence relationship between access points (APs) and user equipments (UEs). We exploit a symmetry property, called permutation equivariance, to attain training simplicity and efficiency. Simulation results show the superiority of our approach in terms of computational complexity, scalability and generalizability for different system sizes and deployment scenarios.
Subjects: Signal Processing (eess.SP); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [492]
标题:  Efficient and Accurate Hyperspectral Image Demosaicing with Neural  Network Architectures
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12050
作者:  Eric L. Wisotzky,  Lara Wallburg,  Anna Hilsmann,  Peter Eisert,  Thomas Wittenberg,  Stephan Göb
备注:  10 pages, accepted at Visapp 2024
Abstract:Neural network architectures for image demosaicing have been become more and more complex. This results in long training periods of such deep networks and the size of the networks is huge. These two factors prevent practical implementation and usage of the networks in real-time platforms, which generally only have limited resources. This study investigates the effectiveness of neural network architectures in hyperspectral image demosaicing. We introduce a range of network models and modifications, and compare them with classical interpolation methods and existing reference network approaches. The aim is to identify robust and efficient performing network architectures. Our evaluation is conducted on two datasets, "SimpleData" and "SimRealData," representing different degrees of realism in multispectral filter array (MSFA) data. The results indicate that our networks outperform or match reference models in both datasets demonstrating exceptional performance. Notably, our approach focuses on achieving correct spectral reconstruction rather than just visual appeal, and this emphasis is supported by quantitative and qualitative assessments. Furthermore, our findings suggest that efficient demosaicing solutions, which require fewer parameters, are essential for practical applications. This research contributes valuable insights into hyperspectral imaging and its potential applications in various fields, including medical imaging.
Subjects: Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [493]
标题:  Exploring Pre-trained Text-to-Video Diffusion Models for Referring Video  Object Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12042
作者:  Zixin Zhu,  Xuelu Feng,  Dongdong Chen,  Junsong Yuan,  Chunming Qiao,  Gang Hua
备注:  The code will be available at \url{this https URL}
Abstract:In this paper, we explore the visual representations produced from a pre-trained text-to-video (T2V) diffusion model for video understanding tasks. We hypothesize that the latent representation learned from a pretrained generative T2V model encapsulates rich semantics and coherent temporal correspondences, thereby naturally facilitating video understanding. Our hypothesis is validated through the classic referring video object segmentation (R-VOS) task. We introduce a novel framework, termed ``VD-IT'', tailored with dedicatedly designed components built upon a fixed pretrained T2V model. Specifically, VD-IT uses textual information as a conditional input, ensuring semantic consistency across time for precise temporal instance matching. It further incorporates image tokens as supplementary textual inputs, enriching the feature set to generate detailed and nuanced masks.Besides, instead of using the standard Gaussian noise, we propose to predict the video-specific noise with an extra noise prediction module, which can help preserve the feature fidelity and elevates segmentation quality. Through extensive experiments, we surprisingly observe that fixed generative T2V diffusion models, unlike commonly used video backbones (e.g., Video Swin Transformer) pretrained with discriminative image/video pre-tasks, exhibit better potential to maintain semantic alignment and temporal consistency. On existing standard benchmarks, our VD-IT achieves highly competitive results, surpassing many existing state-of-the-art methods. The code will be available at \url{this https URL}
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [494]
标题:  Distilling Datasets Into Less Than One Image
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12040
作者:  Asaf Shul,  Eliahu Horwitz,  Yedid Hoshen
备注:  
Abstract:Dataset distillation aims to compress a dataset into a much smaller one so that a model trained on the distilled dataset achieves high accuracy. Current methods frame this as maximizing the distilled classification accuracy for a budget of K distilled images-per-class, where K is a positive integer. In this paper, we push the boundaries of dataset distillation, compressing the dataset into less than an image-per-class. It is important to realize that the meaningful quantity is not the number of distilled images-per-class but the number of distilled pixels-per-dataset. We therefore, propose Poster Dataset Distillation (PoDD), a new approach that distills the entire original dataset into a single poster. The poster approach motivates new technical solutions for creating training images and learnable labels. Our method can achieve comparable or better performance with less than an image-per-class compared to existing methods that use one image-per-class. Specifically, our method establishes a new state-of-the-art performance on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and CUB200 using as little as 0.3 images-per-class.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [495]
标题:  StereoNavNet: Learning to Navigate using Stereo Cameras with Auxiliary  Occupancy Voxels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12039
作者:  Hongyu Li,  Taskin Padir,  Huaizu Jiang
备注:  
Abstract:Visual navigation has received significant attention recently. Most of the prior works focus on predicting navigation actions based on semantic features extracted from visual encoders. However, these approaches often rely on large datasets and exhibit limited generalizability. In contrast, our approach draws inspiration from traditional navigation planners that operate on geometric representations, such as occupancy maps. We propose StereoNavNet (SNN), a novel visual navigation approach employing a modular learning framework comprising perception and policy modules. Within the perception module, we estimate an auxiliary 3D voxel occupancy grid from stereo RGB images and extract geometric features from it. These features, along with user-defined goals, are utilized by the policy module to predict navigation actions. Through extensive empirical evaluation, we demonstrate that SNN outperforms baseline approaches in terms of success rates, success weighted by path length, and navigation error. Furthermore, SNN exhibits better generalizability, characterized by maintaining leading performance when navigating across previously unseen environments.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [496]
标题:  Zero-Shot Image Feature Consensus with Deep Functional Maps
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12038
作者:  Xinle Cheng,  Congyue Deng,  Adam Harley,  Yixin Zhu,  Leonidas Guibas
备注:  
Abstract:Correspondences emerge from large-scale vision models trained for generative and discriminative tasks. This has been revealed and benchmarked by computing correspondence maps between pairs of images, using nearest neighbors on the feature grids. Existing work has attempted to improve the quality of these correspondence maps by carefully mixing features from different sources, such as by combining the features of different layers or networks. We point out that a better correspondence strategy is available, which directly imposes structure on the correspondence field: the functional map. Wielding this simple mathematical tool, we lift the correspondence problem from the pixel space to the function space and directly optimize for mappings that are globally coherent. We demonstrate that our technique yields correspondences that are not only smoother but also more accurate, with the possibility of better reflecting the knowledge embedded in the large-scale vision models that we are studying. Our approach sets a new state-of-the-art on various dense correspondence tasks. We also demonstrate our effectiveness in keypoint correspondence and affordance map transfer.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [497]
标题:  MineDreamer: Learning to Follow Instructions via Chain-of-Imagination  for Simulated-World Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12037
作者:  Enshen Zhou,  Yiran Qin,  Zhenfei Yin,  Yuzhou Huang,  Ruimao Zhang,  Lu Sheng,  Yu Qiao,  Jing Shao
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:It is a long-lasting goal to design a generalist-embodied agent that can follow diverse instructions in human-like ways. However, existing approaches often fail to steadily follow instructions due to difficulties in understanding abstract and sequential natural language instructions. To this end, we introduce MineDreamer, an open-ended embodied agent built upon the challenging Minecraft simulator with an innovative paradigm that enhances instruction-following ability in low-level control signal generation. Specifically, MineDreamer is developed on top of recent advances in Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) and diffusion models, and we employ a Chain-of-Imagination (CoI) mechanism to envision the step-by-step process of executing instructions and translating imaginations into more precise visual prompts tailored to the current state; subsequently, the agent generates keyboard-and-mouse actions to efficiently achieve these imaginations, steadily following the instructions at each step. Extensive experiments demonstrate that MineDreamer follows single and multi-step instructions steadily, significantly outperforming the best generalist agent baseline and nearly doubling its performance. Moreover, qualitative analysis of the agent's imaginative ability reveals its generalization and comprehension of the open world.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [498]
标题:  One-Step Image Translation with Text-to-Image Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12036
作者:  Gaurav Parmar,  Taesung Park,  Srinivasa Narasimhan,  Jun-Yan Zhu
备注:  Github: this https URL
Abstract:In this work, we address two limitations of existing conditional diffusion models: their slow inference speed due to the iterative denoising process and their reliance on paired data for model fine-tuning. To tackle these issues, we introduce a general method for adapting a single-step diffusion model to new tasks and domains through adversarial learning objectives. Specifically, we consolidate various modules of the vanilla latent diffusion model into a single end-to-end generator network with small trainable weights, enhancing its ability to preserve the input image structure while reducing overfitting. We demonstrate that, for unpaired settings, our model CycleGAN-Turbo outperforms existing GAN-based and diffusion-based methods for various scene translation tasks, such as day-to-night conversion and adding/removing weather effects like fog, snow, and rain. We extend our method to paired settings, where our model pix2pix-Turbo is on par with recent works like Control-Net for Sketch2Photo and Edge2Image, but with a single-step inference. This work suggests that single-step diffusion models can serve as strong backbones for a range of GAN learning objectives. Our code and models are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [499]
标题:  CoCoCo: Improving Text-Guided Video Inpainting for Better Consistency,  Controllability and Compatibility
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12035
作者:  Bojia Zi,  Shihao Zhao,  Xianbiao Qi,  Jianan Wang,  Yukai Shi,  Qianyu Chen,  Bin Liang,  Kam-Fai Wong,  Lei Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in video generation have been remarkable, yet many existing methods struggle with issues of consistency and poor text-video alignment. Moreover, the field lacks effective techniques for text-guided video inpainting, a stark contrast to the well-explored domain of text-guided image inpainting. To this end, this paper proposes a novel text-guided video inpainting model that achieves better consistency, controllability and compatibility. Specifically, we introduce a simple but efficient motion capture module to preserve motion consistency, and design an instance-aware region selection instead of a random region selection to obtain better textual controllability, and utilize a novel strategy to inject some personalized models into our CoCoCo model and thus obtain better model compatibility. Extensive experiments show that our model can generate high-quality video clips. Meanwhile, our model shows better motion consistency, textual controllability and model compatibility. More details are shown in [this http URL](this http URL).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [500]
标题:  VFusion3D: Learning Scalable 3D Generative Models from Video Diffusion  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12034
作者:  Junlin Han,  Filippos Kokkinos,  Philip Torr
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:This paper presents a novel paradigm for building scalable 3D generative models utilizing pre-trained video diffusion models. The primary obstacle in developing foundation 3D generative models is the limited availability of 3D data. Unlike images, texts, or videos, 3D data are not readily accessible and are difficult to acquire. This results in a significant disparity in scale compared to the vast quantities of other types of data. To address this issue, we propose using a video diffusion model, trained with extensive volumes of text, images, and videos, as a knowledge source for 3D data. By unlocking its multi-view generative capabilities through fine-tuning, we generate a large-scale synthetic multi-view dataset to train a feed-forward 3D generative model. The proposed model, VFusion3D, trained on nearly 3M synthetic multi-view data, can generate a 3D asset from a single image in seconds and achieves superior performance when compared to current SOTA feed-forward 3D generative models, with users preferring our results over 70% of the time.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [501]
标题:  HiKER-SGG: Hierarchical Knowledge Enhanced Robust Scene Graph Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12033
作者:  Ce Zhang,  Simon Stepputtis,  Joseph Campbell,  Katia Sycara,  Yaqi Xie
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024. Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Being able to understand visual scenes is a precursor for many downstream tasks, including autonomous driving, robotics, and other vision-based approaches. A common approach enabling the ability to reason over visual data is Scene Graph Generation (SGG); however, many existing approaches assume undisturbed vision, i.e., the absence of real-world corruptions such as fog, snow, smoke, as well as non-uniform perturbations like sun glare or water drops. In this work, we propose a novel SGG benchmark containing procedurally generated weather corruptions and other transformations over the Visual Genome dataset. Further, we introduce a corresponding approach, Hierarchical Knowledge Enhanced Robust Scene Graph Generation (HiKER-SGG), providing a strong baseline for scene graph generation under such challenging setting. At its core, HiKER-SGG utilizes a hierarchical knowledge graph in order to refine its predictions from coarse initial estimates to detailed predictions. In our extensive experiments, we show that HiKER-SGG does not only demonstrate superior performance on corrupted images in a zero-shot manner, but also outperforms current state-of-the-art methods on uncorrupted SGG tasks. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [502]
标题:  Generic 3D Diffusion Adapter Using Controlled Multi-View Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12032
作者:  Hansheng Chen,  Ruoxi Shi,  Yulin Liu,  Bokui Shen,  Jiayuan Gu,  Gordon Wetzstein,  Hao Su,  Leonidas Guibas
备注:  V2 note: Fix missing acknowledgements. Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Open-domain 3D object synthesis has been lagging behind image synthesis due to limited data and higher computational complexity. To bridge this gap, recent works have investigated multi-view diffusion but often fall short in either 3D consistency, visual quality, or efficiency. This paper proposes MVEdit, which functions as a 3D counterpart of SDEdit, employing ancestral sampling to jointly denoise multi-view images and output high-quality textured meshes. Built on off-the-shelf 2D diffusion models, MVEdit achieves 3D consistency through a training-free 3D Adapter, which lifts the 2D views of the last timestep into a coherent 3D representation, then conditions the 2D views of the next timestep using rendered views, without uncompromising visual quality. With an inference time of only 2-5 minutes, this framework achieves better trade-off between quality and speed than score distillation. MVEdit is highly versatile and extendable, with a wide range of applications including text/image-to-3D generation, 3D-to-3D editing, and high-quality texture synthesis. In particular, evaluations demonstrate state-of-the-art performance in both image-to-3D and text-guided texture generation tasks. Additionally, we introduce a method for fine-tuning 2D latent diffusion models on small 3D datasets with limited resources, enabling fast low-resolution text-to-3D initialization.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [503]
标题:  ROUTERBENCH: A Benchmark for Multi-LLM Routing System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12031
作者:  Qitian Jason Hu,  Jacob Bieker,  Xiuyu Li,  Nan Jiang,  Benjamin Keigwin,  Gaurav Ranganath,  Kurt Keutzer,  Shriyash Kaustubh Upadhyay
备注:  
Abstract:As the range of applications for Large Language Models (LLMs) continues to grow, the demand for effective serving solutions becomes increasingly critical. Despite the versatility of LLMs, no single model can optimally address all tasks and applications, particularly when balancing performance with cost. This limitation has led to the development of LLM routing systems, which combine the strengths of various models to overcome the constraints of individual LLMs. Yet, the absence of a standardized benchmark for evaluating the performance of LLM routers hinders progress in this area. To bridge this gap, we present ROUTERBENCH, a novel evaluation framework designed to systematically assess the efficacy of LLM routing systems, along with a comprehensive dataset comprising over 405k inference outcomes from representative LLMs to support the development of routing strategies. We further propose a theoretical framework for LLM routing, and deliver a comparative analysis of various routing approaches through ROUTERBENCH, highlighting their potentials and limitations within our evaluation framework. This work not only formalizes and advances the development of LLM routing systems but also sets a standard for their assessment, paving the way for more accessible and economically viable LLM deployments. The code and data are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [504]
标题:  Expandable Subspace Ensemble for Pre-Trained Model-Based  Class-Incremental Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12030
作者:  Da-Wei Zhou,  Hai-Long Sun,  Han-Jia Ye,  De-Chuan Zhan
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024. Code is available at: this https URL
Abstract:Class-Incremental Learning (CIL) requires a learning system to continually learn new classes without forgetting. Despite the strong performance of Pre-Trained Models (PTMs) in CIL, a critical issue persists: learning new classes often results in the overwriting of old ones. Excessive modification of the network causes forgetting, while minimal adjustments lead to an inadequate fit for new classes. As a result, it is desired to figure out a way of efficient model updating without harming former knowledge. In this paper, we propose ExpAndable Subspace Ensemble (EASE) for PTM-based CIL. To enable model updating without conflict, we train a distinct lightweight adapter module for each new task, aiming to create task-specific subspaces. These adapters span a high-dimensional feature space, enabling joint decision-making across multiple subspaces. As data evolves, the expanding subspaces render the old class classifiers incompatible with new-stage spaces. Correspondingly, we design a semantic-guided prototype complement strategy that synthesizes old classes' new features without using any old class instance. Extensive experiments on seven benchmark datasets verify EASE's state-of-the-art performance. Code is available at: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [505]
标题:  Align and Distill: Unifying and Improving Domain Adaptive Object  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12029
作者:  Justin Kay,  Timm Haucke,  Suzanne Stathatos,  Siqi Deng,  Erik Young,  Pietro Perona,  Sara Beery,  Grant Van Horn
备注:  30 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:Object detectors often perform poorly on data that differs from their training set. Domain adaptive object detection (DAOD) methods have recently demonstrated strong results on addressing this challenge. Unfortunately, we identify systemic benchmarking pitfalls that call past results into question and hamper further progress: (a) Overestimation of performance due to underpowered baselines, (b) Inconsistent implementation practices preventing transparent comparisons of methods, and (c) Lack of generality due to outdated backbones and lack of diversity in benchmarks. We address these problems by introducing: (1) A unified benchmarking and implementation framework, Align and Distill (ALDI), enabling comparison of DAOD methods and supporting future development, (2) A fair and modern training and evaluation protocol for DAOD that addresses benchmarking pitfalls, (3) A new DAOD benchmark dataset, CFC-DAOD, enabling evaluation on diverse real-world data, and (4) A new method, ALDI++, that achieves state-of-the-art results by a large margin. ALDI++ outperforms the previous state-of-the-art by +3.5 AP50 on Cityscapes to Foggy Cityscapes, +5.7 AP50 on Sim10k to Cityscapes (where ours is the only method to outperform a fair baseline), and +2.0 AP50 on CFC Kenai to Channel. Our framework, dataset, and state-of-the-art method offer a critical reset for DAOD and provide a strong foundation for future research. Code and data are available: this https URL and this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [506]
标题:  Ultraman: Single Image 3D Human Reconstruction with Ultra Speed and  Detail
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12028
作者:  Mingjin Chen,  Junhao Chen,  Xiaojun Ye,  Huan-ang Gao,  Xiaoxue Chen,  Zhaoxin Fan,  Hao Zhao
备注:  Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:3D human body reconstruction has been a challenge in the field of computer vision. Previous methods are often time-consuming and difficult to capture the detailed appearance of the human body. In this paper, we propose a new method called \emph{Ultraman} for fast reconstruction of textured 3D human models from a single image. Compared to existing techniques, \emph{Ultraman} greatly improves the reconstruction speed and accuracy while preserving high-quality texture details. We present a set of new frameworks for human reconstruction consisting of three parts, geometric reconstruction, texture generation and texture mapping. Firstly, a mesh reconstruction framework is used, which accurately extracts 3D human shapes from a single image. At the same time, we propose a method to generate a multi-view consistent image of the human body based on a single image. This is finally combined with a novel texture mapping method to optimize texture details and ensure color consistency during reconstruction. Through extensive experiments and evaluations, we demonstrate the superior performance of \emph{Ultraman} on various standard datasets. In addition, \emph{Ultraman} outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of human rendering quality and speed. Upon acceptance of the article, we will make the code and data publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [507]
标题:  From Pixels to Insights: A Survey on Automatic Chart Understanding in  the Era of Large Foundation Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12027
作者:  Kung-Hsiang Huang,  Hou Pong Chan,  Yi R. Fung,  Haoyi Qiu,  Mingyang Zhou,  Shafiq Joty,  Shih-Fu Chang,  Heng Ji
备注:  
Abstract:Data visualization in the form of charts plays a pivotal role in data analysis, offering critical insights and aiding in informed decision-making. Automatic chart understanding has witnessed significant advancements with the rise of large foundation models in recent years. Foundation models, such as large language models (LLMs), have revolutionized various natural language processing (NLP) tasks and are increasingly being applied to chart understanding tasks. This survey paper provides a comprehensive overview of the recent developments, challenges, and future directions in chart understanding within the context of these foundation models. The paper begins by defining chart understanding, outlining problem formulations, and discussing fundamental building blocks crucial for studying chart understanding tasks. In the section on tasks and datasets, we explore various tasks within chart understanding and discuss their evaluation metrics and sources of both charts and textual inputs. Modeling strategies are then examined, encompassing both classification-based and generation-based approaches, along with tool augmentation techniques that enhance chart understanding performance. Furthermore, we discuss the state-of-the-art performance of each task and discuss how we can improve the performance. Challenges and future directions are addressed in a dedicated section, highlighting issues such as domain-specific charts, lack of efforts in evaluation, and agent-oriented settings. This survey paper serves to provide valuable insights and directions for future research in chart understanding leveraging large foundation models. The studies mentioned in this paper, along with emerging new research, will be continually updated at: this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [508]
标题:  FlexCap: Generating Rich, Localized, and Flexible Captions in Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12026
作者:  Debidatta Dwibedi,  Vidhi Jain,  Jonathan Tompson,  Andrew Zisserman,  Yusuf Aytar
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce a versatile $\textit{flexible-captioning}$ vision-language model (VLM) capable of generating region-specific descriptions of varying lengths. The model, FlexCap, is trained to produce length-conditioned captions for input bounding boxes, and this allows control over the information density of its output, with descriptions ranging from concise object labels to detailed captions. To achieve this we create large-scale training datasets of image region descriptions of varying length, starting from captioned images. This flexible-captioning capability has several valuable applications. First, FlexCap demonstrates superior performance in dense captioning tasks on the Visual Genome dataset. Second, a visual question answering (VQA) system can be built by employing FlexCap to generate localized descriptions as inputs to a large language model. The resulting system achieves state-of-the-art zero-shot performance on a number of VQA datasets. We also demonstrate a $\textit{localize-then-describe}$ approach with FlexCap can be better at open-ended object detection than a $\textit{describe-then-localize}$ approach with other VLMs. We highlight a novel characteristic of FlexCap, which is its ability to extract diverse visual information through prefix conditioning. Finally, we qualitatively demonstrate FlexCap's broad applicability in tasks such as image labeling, object attribute recognition, and visual dialog. Project webpage: this https URL .
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [509]
标题:  A Toolbox for Surfacing Health Equity Harms and Biases in Large Language  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12025
作者:  Stephen R. Pfohl,  Heather Cole-Lewis,  Rory Sayres,  Darlene Neal,  Mercy Asiedu,  Awa Dieng,  Nenad Tomasev,  Qazi Mamunur Rashid,  Shekoofeh Azizi,  Negar Rostamzadeh,  Liam G. McCoy,  Leo Anthony Celi,  Yun Liu,  Mike Schaekermann,  Alanna Walton,  Alicia Parrish,  Chirag Nagpal,  Preeti Singh,  Akeiylah Dewitt,  Philip Mansfield,  Sushant Prakash,  Katherine Heller,  Alan Karthikesalingam,  Christopher Semturs,  Joelle Barral,  Greg Corrado,  Yossi Matias,  Jamila Smith-Loud,  Ivor Horn,  Karan Singhal
备注:  
Abstract:Large language models (LLMs) hold immense promise to serve complex health information needs but also have the potential to introduce harm and exacerbate health disparities. Reliably evaluating equity-related model failures is a critical step toward developing systems that promote health equity. In this work, we present resources and methodologies for surfacing biases with potential to precipitate equity-related harms in long-form, LLM-generated answers to medical questions and then conduct an empirical case study with Med-PaLM 2, resulting in the largest human evaluation study in this area to date. Our contributions include a multifactorial framework for human assessment of LLM-generated answers for biases, and EquityMedQA, a collection of seven newly-released datasets comprising both manually-curated and LLM-generated questions enriched for adversarial queries. Both our human assessment framework and dataset design process are grounded in an iterative participatory approach and review of possible biases in Med-PaLM 2 answers to adversarial queries. Through our empirical study, we find that the use of a collection of datasets curated through a variety of methodologies, coupled with a thorough evaluation protocol that leverages multiple assessment rubric designs and diverse rater groups, surfaces biases that may be missed via narrower evaluation approaches. Our experience underscores the importance of using diverse assessment methodologies and involving raters of varying backgrounds and expertise. We emphasize that while our framework can identify specific forms of bias, it is not sufficient to holistically assess whether the deployment of an AI system promotes equitable health outcomes. We hope the broader community leverages and builds on these tools and methods towards realizing a shared goal of LLMs that promote accessible and equitable healthcare for all.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [510]
标题:  Enhancing Hokkien Dual Translation by Exploring and Standardizing of  Four Writing Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12024
作者:  Bo-Han Lu,  Yi-Hsuan Lin,  En-Shiun Annie Lee,  Richard Tzong-Han Tsai
备注:  Accepted by LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Machine translation focuses mainly on high-resource languages (HRLs), while low-resource languages (LRLs) like Taiwanese Hokkien are relatively under-explored. This study aims to address this gap by developing a dual translation model between Taiwanese Hokkien and both Traditional Mandarin Chinese and English. We employ a pre-trained LLaMA2-7B model specialized in Traditional Mandarin Chinese to leverage the orthographic similarities between Taiwanese Hokkien Han and Traditional Mandarin Chinese. Our comprehensive experiments involve translation tasks across various writing systems of Taiwanese Hokkien and between Taiwanese Hokkien and other HRLs. We find that the use of a limited monolingual corpus also further improve the model's Taiwanese Hokkien capabilities. We then utilize our translation model to standardize all Taiwanese Hokkien writing systems into Hokkien Han, resulting in further performance improvements. Additionally, we introduce an evaluation method incorporating back-translation and GPT-4 to ensure reliable translation quality assessment even for LRLs. The study contributes to narrowing the resource gap for Taiwanese Hokkien and empirically investigates the advantages and limitations of pre-training and fine-tuning based on LLaMA 2.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [511]
标题:  Aligning Learning with Communication in Shared Autonomy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12023
作者:  Joshua Hoegerman,  Shahabedin Sagheb,  Benjamin A. Christie,  Dylan P. Losey
备注:  7 pages, under review for IROS 2024
Abstract:Assistive robot arms can help humans by partially automating their desired tasks. Consider an adult with motor impairments controlling an assistive robot arm to eat dinner. The robot can reduce the number of human inputs -- and how precise those inputs need to be -- by recognizing what the human wants (e.g., a fork) and assisting for that task (e.g., moving towards the fork). Prior research has largely focused on learning the human's task and providing meaningful assistance. But as the robot learns and assists, we also need to ensure that the human understands the robot's intent (e.g., does the human know the robot is reaching for a fork?). In this paper, we study the effects of communicating learned assistance from the robot back to the human operator. We do not focus on the specific interfaces used for communication. Instead, we develop experimental and theoretical models of a) how communication changes the way humans interact with assistive robot arms, and b) how robots can harness these changes to better align with the human's intent. We first conduct online and in-person user studies where participants operate robots that provide partial assistance, and we measure how the human's inputs change with and without communication. With communication, we find that humans are more likely to intervene when the robot incorrectly predicts their intent, and more likely to release control when the robot correctly understands their task. We then use these findings to modify an established robot learning algorithm so that the robot can correctly interpret the human's inputs when communication is present. Our results from a second in-person user study suggest that this combination of communication and learning outperforms assistive systems that isolate either learning or communication.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [512]
标题:  LN3Diff: Scalable Latent Neural Fields Diffusion for Speedy 3D  Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12019
作者:  Yushi Lan,  Fangzhou Hong,  Shuai Yang,  Shangchen Zhou,  Xuyi Meng,  Bo Dai,  Xingang Pan,  Chen Change Loy
备注:  project webpage: this https URL
Abstract:The field of neural rendering has witnessed significant progress with advancements in generative models and differentiable rendering techniques. Though 2D diffusion has achieved success, a unified 3D diffusion pipeline remains unsettled. This paper introduces a novel framework called LN3Diff to address this gap and enable fast, high-quality, and generic conditional 3D generation. Our approach harnesses a 3D-aware architecture and variational autoencoder (VAE) to encode the input image into a structured, compact, and 3D latent space. The latent is decoded by a transformer-based decoder into a high-capacity 3D neural field. Through training a diffusion model on this 3D-aware latent space, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on ShapeNet for 3D generation and demonstrates superior performance in monocular 3D reconstruction and conditional 3D generation across various datasets. Moreover, it surpasses existing 3D diffusion methods in terms of inference speed, requiring no per-instance optimization. Our proposed LN3Diff presents a significant advancement in 3D generative modeling and holds promise for various applications in 3D vision and graphics tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [513]
标题:  Supervised Fine-Tuning as Inverse Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12017
作者:  Hao Sun
备注:  
Abstract:The prevailing approach to aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) typically relies on human or AI feedback and assumes access to specific types of preference datasets. In our work, we question the efficacy of such datasets and explore various scenarios where alignment with expert demonstrations proves more realistic. We build a sequential decision-making framework to formulate the problem of aligning LLMs using demonstration datasets. Drawing insights from inverse reinforcement learning and imitation learning, we introduce various approaches for divergence minimization in the LLM alignment tasks. Our analysis highlights the mass-covering and mode-seeking behaviors of these different approaches. Inclusively, we examine the pros and cons of the classical supervised fine-tuning method, elaborating on scenarios where different methods shine.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [514]
标题:  Fast High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Adversarial Diffusion  Distillation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12015
作者:  Axel Sauer,  Frederic Boesel,  Tim Dockhorn,  Andreas Blattmann,  Patrick Esser,  Robin Rombach
备注:  
Abstract:Diffusion models are the main driver of progress in image and video synthesis, but suffer from slow inference speed. Distillation methods, like the recently introduced adversarial diffusion distillation (ADD) aim to shift the model from many-shot to single-step inference, albeit at the cost of expensive and difficult optimization due to its reliance on a fixed pretrained DINOv2 discriminator. We introduce Latent Adversarial Diffusion Distillation (LADD), a novel distillation approach overcoming the limitations of ADD. In contrast to pixel-based ADD, LADD utilizes generative features from pretrained latent diffusion models. This approach simplifies training and enhances performance, enabling high-resolution multi-aspect ratio image synthesis. We apply LADD to Stable Diffusion 3 (8B) to obtain SD3-Turbo, a fast model that matches the performance of state-of-the-art text-to-image generators using only four unguided sampling steps. Moreover, we systematically investigate its scaling behavior and demonstrate LADD's effectiveness in various applications such as image editing and inpainting.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [515]
标题:  EnvGen: Generating and Adapting Environments via LLMs for Training  Embodied Agents
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12014
作者:  Abhay Zala,  Jaemin Cho,  Han Lin,  Jaehong Yoon,  Mohit Bansal
备注:  First two authors contributed equally; Project website: this https URL
Abstract:Recent SOTA approaches for embodied learning via interaction directly employ large language models (LLMs) as agents to determine the next steps in an environment. Due to their world knowledge and reasoning capabilities, LLM agents achieve stronger performance than previous smaller agents based on reinforcement learning (RL); however, frequently calling LLMs is slow and expensive. Instead of directly employing LLMs as agents, can we use LLMs' reasoning capabilities to adaptively create training environments to help smaller embodied RL agents learn useful skills that they are weak at? We propose EnvGen, a novel framework to address this question. First, we prompt an LLM to generate training environments that allow agents to quickly learn different tasks in parallel. Concretely, the LLM is given the task description and simulator objectives that the agents should learn and is then asked to generate a set of environment configurations (e.g., different terrains, items given to agents, etc.). Next, we train a small RL agent in a mixture of the original and LLM-generated environments. Then, we enable the LLM to continuously adapt the generated environments to progressively improve the skills that the agent is weak at, by providing feedback to the LLM in the form of the agent's performance. We demonstrate the usefulness of EnvGen with comprehensive experiments in Crafter and Heist environments. We find that a small RL agent trained with EnvGen can outperform SOTA methods, including a GPT-4 agent, and learns long-horizon tasks significantly faster. We show qualitatively how the LLM adapts training environments to help improve RL agents' weaker skills over time. Additionally, EnvGen is substantially more efficient as it only uses a small number of LLM calls (e.g., 4 in total), whereas LLM agents require thousands of LLM calls. Lastly, we present detailed ablation studies for our design choices.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [516]
标题:  GeoWizard: Unleashing the Diffusion Priors for 3D Geometry Estimation  from a Single Image
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12013
作者:  Xiao Fu,  Wei Yin,  Mu Hu,  Kaixuan Wang,  Yuexin Ma,  Ping Tan,  Shaojie Shen,  Dahua Lin,  Xiaoxiao Long
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:We introduce GeoWizard, a new generative foundation model designed for estimating geometric attributes, e.g., depth and normals, from single images. While significant research has already been conducted in this area, the progress has been substantially limited by the low diversity and poor quality of publicly available datasets. As a result, the prior works either are constrained to limited scenarios or suffer from the inability to capture geometric details. In this paper, we demonstrate that generative models, as opposed to traditional discriminative models (e.g., CNNs and Transformers), can effectively address the inherently ill-posed problem. We further show that leveraging diffusion priors can markedly improve generalization, detail preservation, and efficiency in resource usage. Specifically, we extend the original stable diffusion model to jointly predict depth and normal, allowing mutual information exchange and high consistency between the two representations. More importantly, we propose a simple yet effective strategy to segregate the complex data distribution of various scenes into distinct sub-distributions. This strategy enables our model to recognize different scene layouts, capturing 3D geometry with remarkable fidelity. GeoWizard sets new benchmarks for zero-shot depth and normal prediction, significantly enhancing many downstream applications such as 3D reconstruction, 2D content creation, and novel viewpoint synthesis.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [517]
标题:  HOIDiffusion: Generating Realistic 3D Hand-Object Interaction Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12011
作者:  Mengqi Zhang,  Yang Fu,  Zheng Ding,  Sifei Liu,  Zhuowen Tu,  Xiaolong Wang
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:3D hand-object interaction data is scarce due to the hardware constraints in scaling up the data collection process. In this paper, we propose HOIDiffusion for generating realistic and diverse 3D hand-object interaction data. Our model is a conditional diffusion model that takes both the 3D hand-object geometric structure and text description as inputs for image synthesis. This offers a more controllable and realistic synthesis as we can specify the structure and style inputs in a disentangled manner. HOIDiffusion is trained by leveraging a diffusion model pre-trained on large-scale natural images and a few 3D human demonstrations. Beyond controllable image synthesis, we adopt the generated 3D data for learning 6D object pose estimation and show its effectiveness in improving perception systems. Project page: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [518]
标题:  VideoMV: Consistent Multi-View Generation Based on Large Video  Generative Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12010
作者:  Qi Zuo,  Xiaodong Gu,  Lingteng Qiu,  Yuan Dong,  Zhengyi Zhao,  Weihao Yuan,  Rui Peng,  Siyu Zhu,  Zilong Dong,  Liefeng Bo,  Qixing Huang
备注:  Project page: aigc3d.github.io/VideoMV/
Abstract:Generating multi-view images based on text or single-image prompts is a critical capability for the creation of 3D content. Two fundamental questions on this topic are what data we use for training and how to ensure multi-view consistency. This paper introduces a novel framework that makes fundamental contributions to both questions. Unlike leveraging images from 2D diffusion models for training, we propose a dense consistent multi-view generation model that is fine-tuned from off-the-shelf video generative models. Images from video generative models are more suitable for multi-view generation because the underlying network architecture that generates them employs a temporal module to enforce frame consistency. Moreover, the video data sets used to train these models are abundant and diverse, leading to a reduced train-finetuning domain gap. To enhance multi-view consistency, we introduce a 3D-Aware Denoising Sampling, which first employs a feed-forward reconstruction module to get an explicit global 3D model, and then adopts a sampling strategy that effectively involves images rendered from the global 3D model into the denoising sampling loop to improve the multi-view consistency of the final images. As a by-product, this module also provides a fast way to create 3D assets represented by 3D Gaussians within a few seconds. Our approach can generate 24 dense views and converges much faster in training than state-of-the-art approaches (4 GPU hours versus many thousand GPU hours) with comparable visual quality and consistency. By further fine-tuning, our approach outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in both quantitative metrics and visual effects. Our project page is this http URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [519]
标题:  Leveraging Spatial and Semantic Feature Extraction for Skin Cancer  Diagnosis with Capsule Networks and Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12009
作者:  K. P. Santoso,  R. V. H. Ginardi,  R. A. Sastrowardoyo,  F. A. Madany
备注:  This is the first version of our paper, we gladly expect feedback and corrections if there is any mistake within our paper
Abstract:In the realm of skin lesion image classification, the intricate spatial and semantic features pose significant challenges for conventional Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-based methodologies. These challenges are compounded by the imbalanced nature of skin lesion datasets, which hampers the ability of models to learn minority class features effectively. Despite augmentation strategies, such as those using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), previous attempts have not fully addressed these complexities. This study introduces an innovative approach by integrating Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) with Capsule Networks to enhance classification performance. GNNs, known for their proficiency in handling graph-structured data, offer an advanced mechanism for capturing complex patterns and relationships beyond the capabilities of traditional CNNs. Capsule Networks further contribute by providing superior recognition of spatial hierarchies within images. Our research focuses on evaluating and enhancing the Tiny Pyramid Vision GNN (Tiny Pyramid ViG) architecture by incorporating it with a Capsule Network. This hybrid model was applied to the MNIST:HAM10000 dataset, a comprehensive skin lesion dataset designed for benchmarking classification models. After 75 epochs of training, our model achieved a significant accuracy improvement, reaching 89.23% and 95.52%, surpassing established benchmarks such as GoogLeNet (83.94%), InceptionV3 (86.82%), MobileNet V3 (89.87%), EfficientNet-B7 (92.07%), ResNet18 (92.22%), ResNet34 (91.90%), ViT-Base (73.70%), and IRv2-SA (93.47%) on the same dataset. This outcome underscores the potential of our approach in overcoming the inherent challenges of skin lesion classification, contributing to the advancement of image-based diagnosis in dermatology.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [520]
标题:  SV3D: Novel Multi-view Synthesis and 3D Generation from a Single Image  using Latent Video Diffusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12008
作者:  Vikram Voleti,  Chun-Han Yao,  Mark Boss,  Adam Letts,  David Pankratz,  Dmitry Tochilkin,  Christian Laforte,  Robin Rombach,  Varun Jampani
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:We present Stable Video 3D (SV3D) -- a latent video diffusion model for high-resolution, image-to-multi-view generation of orbital videos around a 3D object. Recent work on 3D generation propose techniques to adapt 2D generative models for novel view synthesis (NVS) and 3D optimization. However, these methods have several disadvantages due to either limited views or inconsistent NVS, thereby affecting the performance of 3D object generation. In this work, we propose SV3D that adapts image-to-video diffusion model for novel multi-view synthesis and 3D generation, thereby leveraging the generalization and multi-view consistency of the video models, while further adding explicit camera control for NVS. We also propose improved 3D optimization techniques to use SV3D and its NVS outputs for image-to-3D generation. Extensive experimental results on multiple datasets with 2D and 3D metrics as well as user study demonstrate SV3D's state-of-the-art performance on NVS as well as 3D reconstruction compared to prior works.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [521]
标题:  Defining Effective Engagement For Enhancing Cancer Patients' Well-being  with Mobile Digital Behavior Change Interventions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12007
作者:  Aneta Lisowska,  Szymon Wilk,  Laura Locati,  Mimma Rizzo,  Lucia Sacchi,  Silvana Quaglini,  Matteo Terzaghi,  Valentina Tibollo,  Mor Peleg
备注:  
Abstract:Digital Behavior Change Interventions (DBCIs) are supporting development of new health behaviors. Evaluating their effectiveness is crucial for their improvement and understanding of success factors. However, comprehensive guidance for developers, particularly in small-scale studies with ethical constraints, is limited. Building on the CAPABLE project, this study aims to define effective engagement with DBCIs for supporting cancer patients in enhancing their quality of life. We identify metrics for measuring engagement, explore the interest of both patients and clinicians in DBCIs, and propose hypotheses for assessing the impact of DBCIs in such contexts. Our findings suggest that clinician prescriptions significantly increase sustained engagement with mobile DBCIs. In addition, while one weekly engagement with a DBCI is sufficient to maintain well-being, transitioning from extrinsic to intrinsic motivation may require a higher level of engagement.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [522]
标题:  Approximate Stability Radius Analysis and Design in Linear Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12006
作者:  Ananta Kant Rai,  Vaibhav Katewa
备注:  
Abstract:The robustness of the stability properties of dynamical systems in the presence of unknown/adversarial perturbations to system parameters is a desirable property. In this paper, we present methods to efficiently compute and improve the approximate stability radius of linear time-invariant systems. We propose two methods to derive closed-form expressions of approximate stability radius, and use these to re-design the system matrix to increase the stability radius. Our numerical studies show that the approximations work well and are able to improve the robustness of the stability of the system.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [523]
标题:  Visualization for Trust in Machine Learning Revisited: The State of the  Field in 2023
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12005
作者:  Angelos Chatzimparmpas,  Kostiantyn Kucher,  Andreas Kerren
备注:  This manuscript is accepted for publication in the IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications Journal (IEEE CG&A)
Abstract:Visualization for explainable and trustworthy machine learning remains one of the most important and heavily researched fields within information visualization and visual analytics with various application domains, such as medicine, finance, and bioinformatics. After our 2020 state-of-the-art report comprising 200 techniques, we have persistently collected peer-reviewed articles describing visualization techniques, categorized them based on the previously established categorization schema consisting of 119 categories, and provided the resulting collection of 542 techniques in an online survey browser. In this survey article, we present the updated findings of new analyses of this dataset as of fall 2023 and discuss trends, insights, and eight open challenges for using visualizations in machine learning. Our results corroborate the rapidly growing trend of visualization techniques for increasing trust in machine learning models in the past three years, with visualization found to help improve popular model explainability methods and check new deep learning architectures, for instance.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [524]
标题:  The Value, Benefits, and Concerns of Generative AI-Powered Assistance in  Writing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12004
作者:  Zhuoyan Li,  Chen Liang,  Jing Peng,  Ming Yin
备注:  CHI 2024
Abstract:Recent advances in generative AI technologies like large language models raise both excitement and concerns about the future of human-AI co-creation in writing. To unpack people's attitude towards and experience with generative AI-powered writing assistants, in this paper, we conduct an experiment to understand whether and how much value people attach to AI assistance, and how the incorporation of AI assistance in writing workflows changes people's writing perceptions and performance. Our results suggest that people are willing to forgo financial payments to receive writing assistance from AI, especially if AI can provide direct content generation assistance and the writing task is highly creative. Generative AI-powered assistance is found to offer benefits in increasing people's productivity and confidence in writing. However, direct content generation assistance offered by AI also comes with risks, including decreasing people's sense of accountability and diversity in writing. We conclude by discussing the implications of our findings.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [525]
标题:  GenView: Enhancing View Quality with Pretrained Generative Model for  Self-Supervised Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12003
作者:  Xiaojie Li,  Yibo Yang,  Xiangtai Li,  Jianlong Wu,  Yue Yu,  Bernard Ghanem,  Min Zhang
备注:  Code: this https URL
Abstract:Self-supervised learning has achieved remarkable success in acquiring high-quality representations from unlabeled data. The widely adopted contrastive learning framework aims to learn invariant representations by minimizing the distance between positive views originating from the same image. However, existing techniques to construct positive views highly rely on manual transformations, resulting in limited diversity and potentially false positive pairs. To tackle these challenges, we present GenView, a controllable framework that augments the diversity of positive views leveraging the power of pretrained generative models while preserving semantics. We develop an adaptive view generation method that dynamically adjusts the noise level in sampling to ensure the preservation of essential semantic meaning while introducing variability. Additionally, we introduce a quality-driven contrastive loss, which assesses the quality of positive pairs by considering both foreground similarity and background diversity. This loss prioritizes the high-quality positive pairs we construct while reducing the influence of low-quality pairs, thereby mitigating potential semantic inconsistencies introduced by generative models and aggressive data augmentation. Thanks to the improved positive view quality and the quality-driven contrastive loss, GenView significantly improves self-supervised learning across various tasks. For instance, GenView improves MoCov2 performance by 2.5%/2.2% on ImageNet linear/semi-supervised classification. Moreover, GenView even performs much better than naively augmenting the ImageNet dataset with Laion400M or ImageNet21K. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [526]
标题:  DreamMotion: Space-Time Self-Similarity Score Distillation for Zero-Shot  Video Editing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12002
作者:  Hyeonho Jeong,  Jinho Chang,  Geon Yeong Park,  Jong Chul Ye
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Text-driven diffusion-based video editing presents a unique challenge not encountered in image editing literature: establishing real-world motion. Unlike existing video editing approaches, here we focus on score distillation sampling to circumvent the standard reverse diffusion process and initiate optimization from videos that already exhibit natural motion. Our analysis reveals that while video score distillation can effectively introduce new content indicated by target text, it can also cause significant structure and motion deviation. To counteract this, we propose to match space-time self-similarities of the original video and the edited video during the score distillation. Thanks to the use of score distillation, our approach is model-agnostic, which can be applied for both cascaded and non-cascaded video diffusion frameworks. Through extensive comparisons with leading methods, our approach demonstrates its superiority in altering appearances while accurately preserving the original structure and motion.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [527]
标题:  Notochord: a Flexible Probabilistic Model for Real-Time MIDI Performance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12000
作者:  Victor Shepardson,  Jack Armitage,  Thor Magnusson
备注:  12 pages, 6 figures. Published in AI Music Creativity 2022
Abstract:Deep learning-based probabilistic models of musical data are producing increasingly realistic results and promise to enter creative workflows of many kinds. Yet they have been little-studied in a performance setting, where the results of user actions typically ought to feel instantaneous. To enable such study, we designed Notochord, a deep probabilistic model for sequences of structured events, and trained an instance of it on the Lakh MIDI dataset. Our probabilistic formulation allows interpretable interventions at a sub-event level, which enables one model to act as a backbone for diverse interactive musical functions including steerable generation, harmonization, machine improvisation, and likelihood-based interfaces. Notochord can generate polyphonic and multi-track MIDI, and respond to inputs with latency below ten milliseconds. Training code, model checkpoints and interactive examples are provided as open source software.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [528]
标题:  HIRI-ViT: Scaling Vision Transformer with High Resolution Inputs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11999
作者:  Ting Yao,  Yehao Li,  Yingwei Pan,  Tao Mei
备注:  IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TPAMI)
Abstract:The hybrid deep models of Vision Transformer (ViT) and Convolution Neural Network (CNN) have emerged as a powerful class of backbones for vision tasks. Scaling up the input resolution of such hybrid backbones naturally strengthes model capacity, but inevitably suffers from heavy computational cost that scales quadratically. Instead, we present a new hybrid backbone with HIgh-Resolution Inputs (namely HIRI-ViT), that upgrades prevalent four-stage ViT to five-stage ViT tailored for high-resolution inputs. HIRI-ViT is built upon the seminal idea of decomposing the typical CNN operations into two parallel CNN branches in a cost-efficient manner. One high-resolution branch directly takes primary high-resolution features as inputs, but uses less convolution operations. The other low-resolution branch first performs down-sampling and then utilizes more convolution operations over such low-resolution features. Experiments on both recognition task (ImageNet-1K dataset) and dense prediction tasks (COCO and ADE20K datasets) demonstrate the superiority of HIRI-ViT. More remarkably, under comparable computational cost ($\sim$5.0 GFLOPs), HIRI-ViT achieves to-date the best published Top-1 accuracy of 84.3% on ImageNet with 448$\times$448 inputs, which absolutely improves 83.4% of iFormer-S by 0.9% with 224$\times$224 inputs.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [529]
标题:  Learning Useful Representations of Recurrent Neural Network Weight  Matrices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11998
作者:  Vincent Herrmann,  Francesco Faccio,  Jürgen Schmidhuber
备注:  
Abstract:Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) are general-purpose parallel-sequential computers. The program of an RNN is its weight matrix. How to learn useful representations of RNN weights that facilitate RNN analysis as well as downstream tasks? While the mechanistic approach directly looks at some RNN's weights to predict its behavior, the functionalist approach analyzes its overall functionality -- specifically, its input-output mapping. We consider several mechanistic approaches for RNN weights and adapt the permutation equivariant Deep Weight Space layer for RNNs. Our two novel functionalist approaches extract information from RNN weights by 'interrogating' the RNN through probing inputs. We develop a theoretical framework that demonstrates conditions under which the functionalist approach can generate rich representations that help determine RNN behavior. We create and release the first two 'model zoo' datasets for RNN weight representation learning. One consists of generative models of a class of formal languages, and the other one of classifiers of sequentially processed MNIST digits. With the help of an emulation-based self-supervised learning technique we compare and evaluate the different RNN weight encoding techniques on multiple downstream applications. On the most challenging one, namely predicting which exact task the RNN was trained on, functionalist approaches show clear superiority.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [530]
标题:  Accelerating Scientific Discovery with Generative Knowledge Extraction,  Graph-Based Representation, and Multimodal Intelligent Graph Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11996
作者:  Markus J. Buehler
备注:  
Abstract:Using generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), we transformed a set of 1,000 scientific papers in the area of biological materials into detailed ontological knowledge graphs, revealing their inherently scale-free nature. Using graph traversal path detection between dissimilar concepts based on combinatorial ranking of node similarity and betweenness centrality, we reveal deep insights into unprecedented interdisciplinary relationships that can be used to answer queries, identify gaps in knowledge, and propose never-before-seen material designs and their behaviors. One comparison revealed detailed structural parallels between biological materials and Beethoven's 9th Symphony, highlighting shared patterns of complexity through isomorphic mapping. The algorithm further created an innovative hierarchical mycelium-based composite that incorporates joint synthesis of graph sampling with principles extracted from Kandinsky's Composition VII painting, where the resulting composite reflects a balance of chaos and order, with features like adjustable porosity, mechanical strength, and complex patterned chemical functionalization. We uncover other isomorphisms across physical, biological, and artistic spheres, revealing a nuanced ontology of immanence and material flux that resonates with postmodern philosophy, and positions these interconnections within a heterarchical framework. Our findings reveal the dynamic, context-dependent interplay of entities beyond traditional hierarchical paradigms, emphasizing the significant role of individual components and their fluctuative relationships within the system. Our predictions achieve a far higher degree of novelty, technical detail and explorative capacity than conventional generative AI methods. The approach establishes a widely useful framework for innovation by revealing hidden connections that facilitate discovery.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [531]
标题:  Adaptive stepsize algorithms for Langevin dynamics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11993
作者:  Alix Leroy,  Benedict Leimkuhler,  Jonas Latz,  Desmond J. Higham
备注:  
Abstract:We discuss the design of an invariant measure-preserving transformed dynamics for the numerical treatment of Langevin dynamics based on rescaling of time, with the goal of sampling from an invariant measure. Given an appropriate monitor function which characterizes the numerical difficulty of the problem as a function of the state of the system, this method allows the stepsizes to be reduced only when necessary, facilitating efficient recovery of long-time behavior. We study both the overdamped and underdamped Langevin dynamics. We investigate how an appropriate correction term that ensures preservation of the invariant measure should be incorporated into a numerical splitting scheme. Finally, we demonstrate the use of the technique in several model systems, including a Bayesian sampling problem with a steep prior.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [532]
标题:  GetMesh: A Controllable Model for High-quality Mesh Generation and  Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11990
作者:  Zhaoyang Lyu,  Ben Fei,  Jinyi Wang,  Xudong Xu,  Ya Zhang,  Weidong Yang,  Bo Dai
备注:  
Abstract:Mesh is a fundamental representation of 3D assets in various industrial applications, and is widely supported by professional softwares. However, due to its irregular structure, mesh creation and manipulation is often time-consuming and labor-intensive. In this paper, we propose a highly controllable generative model, GetMesh, for mesh generation and manipulation across different categories. By taking a varying number of points as the latent representation, and re-organizing them as triplane representation, GetMesh generates meshes with rich and sharp details, outperforming both single-category and multi-category counterparts. Moreover, it also enables fine-grained control over the generation process that previous mesh generative models cannot achieve, where changing global/local mesh topologies, adding/removing mesh parts, and combining mesh parts across categories can be intuitively, efficiently, and robustly accomplished by adjusting the number, positions or features of latent points. Project page is this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [533]
标题:  SceneSense: Diffusion Models for 3D Occupancy Synthesis from Partial  Observation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11985
作者:  Alec Reed,  Brendan Crowe,  Doncey Albin,  Lorin Achey,  Bradley Hayes,  Christoffer Heckman
备注:  8 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:When exploring new areas, robotic systems generally exclusively plan and execute controls over geometry that has been directly measured. When entering space that was previously obstructed from view such as turning corners in hallways or entering new rooms, robots often pause to plan over the newly observed space. To address this we present SceneScene, a real-time 3D diffusion model for synthesizing 3D occupancy information from partial observations that effectively predicts these occluded or out of view geometries for use in future planning and control frameworks. SceneSense uses a running occupancy map and a single RGB-D camera to generate predicted geometry around the platform at runtime, even when the geometry is occluded or out of view. Our architecture ensures that SceneSense never overwrites observed free or occupied space. By preserving the integrity of the observed map, SceneSense mitigates the risk of corrupting the observed space with generative predictions. While SceneSense is shown to operate well using a single RGB-D camera, the framework is flexible enough to extend to additional modalities. SceneSense operates as part of any system that generates a running occupancy map `out of the box', removing conditioning from the framework. Alternatively, for maximum performance in new modalities, the perception backbone can be replaced and the model retrained for inference in new applications. Unlike existing models that necessitate multiple views and offline scene synthesis, or are focused on filling gaps in observed data, our findings demonstrate that SceneSense is an effective approach to estimating unobserved local occupancy information at runtime. Local occupancy predictions from SceneSense are shown to better represent the ground truth occupancy distribution during the test exploration trajectories than the running occupancy map.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [534]
标题:  Using Generative Text Models to Create Qualitative Codebooks for Student  Evaluations of Teaching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11984
作者:  Andrew Katz,  Mitchell Gerhardt,  Michelle Soledad
备注:  Natural language processing, large language models, generative AI, student evaluations of teaching, codebook generation, qualitative data analysis
Abstract:Feedback is a critical aspect of improvement. Unfortunately, when there is a lot of feedback from multiple sources, it can be difficult to distill the information into actionable insights. Consider student evaluations of teaching (SETs), which are important sources of feedback for educators. They can give instructors insights into what worked during a semester. A collection of SETs can also be useful to administrators as signals for courses or entire programs. However, on a large scale as in high-enrollment courses or administrative records over several years, the volume of SETs can render them difficult to analyze. In this paper, we discuss a novel method for analyzing SETs using natural language processing (NLP) and large language models (LLMs). We demonstrate the method by applying it to a corpus of 5,000 SETs from a large public university. We show that the method can be used to extract, embed, cluster, and summarize the SETs to identify the themes they express. More generally, this work illustrates how to use the combination of NLP techniques and LLMs to generate a codebook for SETs. We conclude by discussing the implications of this method for analyzing SETs and other types of student writing in teaching and research settings.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [535]
标题:  Diffusion Denoising as a Certified Defense against Clean-label Poisoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11981
作者:  Sanghyun Hong,  Nicholas Carlini,  Alexey Kurakin
备注:  
Abstract:We present a certified defense to clean-label poisoning attacks. These attacks work by injecting a small number of poisoning samples (e.g., 1%) that contain $p$-norm bounded adversarial perturbations into the training data to induce a targeted misclassification of a test-time input. Inspired by the adversarial robustness achieved by $denoised$ $smoothing$, we show how an off-the-shelf diffusion model can sanitize the tampered training data. We extensively test our defense against seven clean-label poisoning attacks and reduce their attack success to 0-16% with only a negligible drop in the test time accuracy. We compare our defense with existing countermeasures against clean-label poisoning, showing that the defense reduces the attack success the most and offers the best model utility. Our results highlight the need for future work on developing stronger clean-label attacks and using our certified yet practical defense as a strong baseline to evaluate these attacks.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [536]
标题:  Pedestrian Tracking with Monocular Camera using Unconstrained 3D Motion  Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11978
作者:  Jan Krejčí,  Oliver Kost,  Ondřej Straka,  Jindřich Duník
备注:  Submitted to FUSION2024 conference
Abstract:A first-principle single-object model is proposed for pedestrian tracking. It is assumed that the extent of the moving object can be described via known statistics in 3D, such as pedestrian height. The proposed model thus need not constrain the object motion in 3D to a common ground plane, which is usual in 3D visual tracking applications. A nonlinear filter for this model is implemented using the unscented Kalman filter (UKF) and tested using the publicly available MOT-17 dataset. The proposed solution yields promising results in 3D while maintaining perfect results when projected into the 2D image. Moreover, the estimation error covariance matches the true one. Unlike conventional methods, the introduced model parameters have convenient meaning and can readily be adjusted for a problem.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [537]
标题:  Unveil Conditional Diffusion Models with Classifier-free Guidance: A  Sharp Statistical Theory
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11968
作者:  Hengyu Fu,  Zhuoran Yang,  Mengdi Wang,  Minshuo Chen
备注:  92 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:Conditional diffusion models serve as the foundation of modern image synthesis and find extensive application in fields like computational biology and reinforcement learning. In these applications, conditional diffusion models incorporate various conditional information, such as prompt input, to guide the sample generation towards desired properties. Despite the empirical success, theory of conditional diffusion models is largely missing. This paper bridges this gap by presenting a sharp statistical theory of distribution estimation using conditional diffusion models. Our analysis yields a sample complexity bound that adapts to the smoothness of the data distribution and matches the minimax lower bound. The key to our theoretical development lies in an approximation result for the conditional score function, which relies on a novel diffused Taylor approximation technique. Moreover, we demonstrate the utility of our statistical theory in elucidating the performance of conditional diffusion models across diverse applications, including model-based transition kernel estimation in reinforcement learning, solving inverse problems, and reward conditioned sample generation.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [538]
标题:  Informed Spectral Normalized Gaussian Processes for Trajectory  Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11966
作者:  Christian Schlauch,  Christian Wirth,  Nadja Klein
备注:  
Abstract:Prior parameter distributions provide an elegant way to represent prior expert and world knowledge for informed learning. Previous work has shown that using such informative priors to regularize probabilistic deep learning (DL) models increases their performance and data-efficiency. However, commonly used sampling-based approximations for probabilistic DL models can be computationally expensive, requiring multiple inference passes and longer training times. Promising alternatives are compute-efficient last layer kernel approximations like spectral normalized Gaussian processes (SNGPs). We propose a novel regularization-based continual learning method for SNGPs, which enables the use of informative priors that represent prior knowledge learned from previous tasks. Our proposal builds upon well-established methods and requires no rehearsal memory or parameter expansion. We apply our informed SNGP model to the trajectory prediction problem in autonomous driving by integrating prior drivability knowledge. On two public datasets, we investigate its performance under diminishing training data and across locations, and thereby demonstrate an increase in data-efficiency and robustness to location-transfers over non-informed and informed baselines.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [539]
标题:  Probabilistic Calibration by Design for Neural Network Regression
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11964
作者:  Victor Dheur,  Souhaib Ben Taieb
备注:  Accepted at the 27th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS 2024)
Abstract:Generating calibrated and sharp neural network predictive distributions for regression problems is essential for optimal decision-making in many real-world applications. To address the miscalibration issue of neural networks, various methods have been proposed to improve calibration, including post-hoc methods that adjust predictions after training and regularization methods that act during training. While post-hoc methods have shown better improvement in calibration compared to regularization methods, the post-hoc step is completely independent of model training. We introduce a novel end-to-end model training procedure called Quantile Recalibration Training, integrating post-hoc calibration directly into the training process without additional parameters. We also present a unified algorithm that includes our method and other post-hoc and regularization methods, as particular cases. We demonstrate the performance of our method in a large-scale experiment involving 57 tabular regression datasets, showcasing improved predictive accuracy while maintaining calibration. We also conduct an ablation study to evaluate the significance of different components within our proposed method, as well as an in-depth analysis of the impact of the base model and different hyperparameters on predictive accuracy.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [540]
标题:  Transfer Learning Beyond Bounded Density Ratios
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11963
作者:  Alkis Kalavasis,  Ilias Zadik,  Manolis Zampetakis
备注:  Abstract shortened to fit ArXiv requirements
Abstract:We study the fundamental problem of transfer learning where a learning algorithm collects data from some source distribution $P$ but needs to perform well with respect to a different target distribution $Q$. A standard change of measure argument implies that transfer learning happens when the density ratio $dQ/dP$ is bounded. Yet, prior thought-provoking works by Kpotufe and Martinet (COLT, 2018) and Hanneke and Kpotufe (NeurIPS, 2019) demonstrate cases where the ratio $dQ/dP$ is unbounded, but transfer learning is possible. In this work, we focus on transfer learning over the class of low-degree polynomial estimators. Our main result is a general transfer inequality over the domain $\mathbb{R}^n$, proving that non-trivial transfer learning for low-degree polynomials is possible under very mild assumptions, going well beyond the classical assumption that $dQ/dP$ is bounded. For instance, it always applies if $Q$ is a log-concave measure and the inverse ratio $dP/dQ$ is bounded. To demonstrate the applicability of our inequality, we obtain new results in the settings of: (1) the classical truncated regression setting, where $dQ/dP$ equals infinity, and (2) the more recent out-of-distribution generalization setting for in-context learning linear functions with transformers. We also provide a discrete analogue of our transfer inequality on the Boolean Hypercube $\{-1,1\}^n$, and study its connections with the recent problem of Generalization on the Unseen of Abbe, Bengio, Lotfi and Rizk (ICML, 2023). Our main conceptual contribution is that the maximum influence of the error of the estimator $\widehat{f}-f^*$ under $Q$, $\mathrm{I}_{\max}(\widehat{f}-f^*)$, acts as a sufficient condition for transferability; when $\mathrm{I}_{\max}(\widehat{f}-f^*)$ is appropriately bounded, transfer is possible over the Boolean domain.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [541]
标题:  Enhanced Event-Based Video Reconstruction with Motion Compensation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11961
作者:  Siying Liu,  Pier Luigi Dragotti
备注:  22 pages, 8 figures (supplementary material included)
Abstract:Deep neural networks for event-based video reconstruction often suffer from a lack of interpretability and have high memory demands. A lightweight network called CISTA-LSTC has recently been introduced showing that high-quality reconstruction can be achieved through the systematic design of its architecture. However, its modelling assumption that input signals and output reconstructed frame share the same sparse representation neglects the displacement caused by motion. To address this, we propose warping the input intensity frames and sparse codes to enhance reconstruction quality. A CISTA-Flow network is constructed by integrating a flow network with CISTA-LSTC for motion compensation. The system relies solely on events, in which predicted flow aids in reconstruction and then reconstructed frames are used to facilitate flow estimation. We also introduce an iterative training framework for this combined system. Results demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art reconstruction accuracy and simultaneously provides reliable dense flow estimation. Furthermore, our model exhibits flexibility in that it can integrate different flow networks, suggesting its potential for further performance enhancement.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [542]
标题:  CASPER: Causality-Aware Spatiotemporal Graph Neural Networks for  Spatiotemporal Time Series Imputation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11960
作者:  Baoyu Jing,  Dawei Zhou,  Kan Ren,  Carl Yang
备注:  Preprint. Work in progress
Abstract:Spatiotemporal time series is the foundation of understanding human activities and their impacts, which is usually collected via monitoring sensors placed at different locations. The collected data usually contains missing values due to various failures, which have significant impact on data analysis. To impute the missing values, a lot of methods have been introduced. When recovering a specific data point, most existing methods tend to take into consideration all the information relevant to that point regardless of whether they have a cause-and-effect relationship. During data collection, it is inevitable that some unknown confounders are included, e.g., background noise in time series and non-causal shortcut edges in the constructed sensor network. These confounders could open backdoor paths between the input and output, in other words, they establish non-causal correlations between the input and output. Over-exploiting these non-causal correlations could result in overfitting and make the model vulnerable to noises. In this paper, we first revisit spatiotemporal time series imputation from a causal perspective, which shows the causal relationships among the input, output, embeddings and confounders. Next, we show how to block the confounders via the frontdoor adjustment. Based on the results of the frontdoor adjustment, we introduce a novel Causality-Aware SPatiotEmpoRal graph neural network (CASPER), which contains a novel Spatiotemporal Causal Attention (SCA) and a Prompt Based Decoder (PBD). PBD could reduce the impact of confounders and SCA could discover the sparse causal relationships among embeddings. Theoretical analysis reveals that SCA discovers causal relationships based on the values of gradients. We evaluate Casper on three real-world datasets, and the experimental results show that Casper outperforms the baselines and effectively discovers causal relationships.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [543]
标题:  IVAC-P2L: Enhancing Video Action Counting through Irregular Repetition  Priors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11959
作者:  Hang Wang,  Zhi-Qi Cheng,  Youtian Du,  Lei Zhang
备注:  Under continuous updates. Modified for arXiv
Abstract:Video Action Counting (VAC) is crucial in analyzing sports, fitness, and everyday activities by quantifying repetitive actions in videos. However, traditional VAC methods have overlooked the complexity of action repetitions, such as interruptions and the variability in cycle duration. Our research addresses the shortfall by introducing a novel approach to VAC, called Irregular Video Action Counting (IVAC). IVAC prioritizes modeling irregular repetition patterns in videos, which we define through two primary aspects: Inter-cycle Consistency and Cycle-interval Inconsistency. Inter-cycle Consistency ensures homogeneity in the spatial-temporal representations of cycle segments, signifying action uniformity within cycles. Cycle-interval inconsistency highlights the importance of distinguishing between cycle segments and intervals based on their inherent content differences. To encapsulate these principles, we propose a new methodology that includes consistency and inconsistency modules, supported by a unique pull-push loss (P2L) mechanism. The IVAC-P2L model applies a pull loss to promote coherence among cycle segment features and a push loss to clearly distinguish features of cycle segments from interval segments. Empirical evaluations conducted on the RepCount dataset demonstrate that the IVAC-P2L model sets a new benchmark in VAC task performance. Furthermore, the model demonstrates exceptional adaptability and generalization across various video contents, outperforming existing models on two additional datasets, UCFRep and Countix, without the need for dataset-specific optimization. These results confirm the efficacy of our approach in addressing irregular repetitions in videos and pave the way for further advancements in video analysis and understanding.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [544]
标题:  Language Evolution with Deep Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11958
作者:  Mathieu Rita,  Paul Michel,  Rahma Chaabouni,  Olivier Pietquin,  Emmanuel Dupoux,  Florian Strub
备注:  to appear in the Oxford Handbook of Approaches to Language Evolution
Abstract:Computational modeling plays an essential role in the study of language emergence. It aims to simulate the conditions and learning processes that could trigger the emergence of a structured language within a simulated controlled environment. Several methods have been used to investigate the origin of our language, including agent-based systems, Bayesian agents, genetic algorithms, and rule-based systems. This chapter explores another class of computational models that have recently revolutionized the field of machine learning: deep learning models. The chapter introduces the basic concepts of deep and reinforcement learning methods and summarizes their helpfulness for simulating language emergence. It also discusses the key findings, limitations, and recent attempts to build realistic simulations. This chapter targets linguists and cognitive scientists seeking an introduction to deep learning as a tool to investigate language evolution.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [545]
标题:  Subjective-Aligned Dateset and Metric for Text-to-Video Quality  Assessment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11956
作者:  Tengchuan Kou,  Xiaohong Liu,  Zicheng Zhang,  Chunyi Li,  Haoning Wu,  Xiongkuo Min,  Guangtao Zhai,  Ning Liu
备注:  
Abstract:With the rapid development of generative models, Artificial Intelligence-Generated Contents (AIGC) have exponentially increased in daily lives. Among them, Text-to-Video (T2V) generation has received widespread attention. Though many T2V models have been released for generating high perceptual quality videos, there is still lack of a method to evaluate the quality of these videos quantitatively. To solve this issue, we establish the largest-scale Text-to-Video Quality Assessment DataBase (T2VQA-DB) to date. The dataset is composed of 10,000 videos generated by 9 different T2V models. We also conduct a subjective study to obtain each video's corresponding mean opinion score. Based on T2VQA-DB, we propose a novel transformer-based model for subjective-aligned Text-to-Video Quality Assessment (T2VQA). The model extracts features from text-video alignment and video fidelity perspectives, then it leverages the ability of a large language model to give the prediction score. Experimental results show that T2VQA outperforms existing T2V metrics and SOTA video quality assessment models. Quantitative analysis indicates that T2VQA is capable of giving subjective-align predictions, validating its effectiveness. The dataset and code will be released at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [546]
标题:  Inferring Belief States in Partially-Observable Human-Robot Teams
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11955
作者:  Jack Kolb,  Karen M. Feigh
备注:  Under review, project page: this https URL
Abstract:We investigate the real-time estimation of human situation awareness using observations from a robot teammate with limited visibility. In human factors and human-autonomy teaming, it is recognized that individuals navigate their environments using an internal mental simulation, or mental model. The mental model informs cognitive processes including situation awareness, contextual reasoning, and task planning. In teaming domains, the mental model includes a team model of each teammate's beliefs and capabilities, enabling fluent teamwork without the need for explicit communication. However, little work has applied team models to human-robot teaming. We compare the performance of two current methods at estimating user situation awareness over varying visibility conditions. Our results indicate that the methods are largely resilient to low-visibility conditions in our domain, however opportunities exist to improve their overall performance.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [547]
标题:  Exploring Estonia's Open Government Data Development as a Journey  towards Excellence: Unveiling the Progress of Local Governments in Open Data  Provision
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11952
作者:  Katrin Rajamäe-Soosaar,  Anastasija Nikiforova
备注:  This paper has been accepted for publication in Proceedings of the 25th Annual International Conference on Digital Government Research and this is a pre-print version of the manuscript. It is posted here for your personal use. Not for redistribution
Abstract:Estonia has a global reputation of a digital state or e-country. However, despite the success in digital governance, the country has faced challenges in the realm of Open Government Data (OGD) area, with significant advancements in its OGD ecosystem, as reflected in various open data rankings from 2020 and onwards, in the recent years being recognized among trend-setters. This paper aims to explore the evolution and positioning of Estonia's OGD development, encompassing national and local levels, through an integrated analysis of various indices, primary data from the Estonian OGD portal, and a thorough literature review. The research shows that Estonia has made progress in the national level open data ecosystem, primarily due to improvements in the OGD portal usability and legislation amendments. However, the local level is not as developed, with local governments lagging behind in OGD provision. The literature review highlights the lack of previous research focusing on Estonian and European local open data, emphasizing the need for future studies to explore the barriers and enablers of municipal OGD. This study contributes to a nuanced understanding of Estonia's dynamic journey in the OGD landscape, shedding light on both achievements and areas warranting further attention for establishing a sustainable open data ecosystem.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Databases (cs.DB); Software Engineering (cs.SE); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [548]
标题:  Learning Dynamical Systems Encoding Non-Linearity within Space Curvature
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11948
作者:  Bernardo Fichera,  Aude Billard
备注:  
Abstract:Dynamical Systems (DS) are an effective and powerful means of shaping high-level policies for robotics control. They provide robust and reactive control while ensuring the stability of the driving vector field. The increasing complexity of real-world scenarios necessitates DS with a higher degree of non-linearity, along with the ability to adapt to potential changes in environmental conditions, such as obstacles. Current learning strategies for DSs often involve a trade-off, sacrificing either stability guarantees or offline computational efficiency in order to enhance the capabilities of the learned DS. Online local adaptation to environmental changes is either not taken into consideration or treated as a separate problem. In this paper, our objective is to introduce a method that enhances the complexity of the learned DS without compromising efficiency during training or stability guarantees. Furthermore, we aim to provide a unified approach for seamlessly integrating the initially learned DS's non-linearity with any local non-linearities that may arise due to changes in the environment. We propose a geometrical approach to learn asymptotically stable non-linear DS for robotics control. Each DS is modeled as a harmonic damped oscillator on a latent manifold. By learning the manifold's Euclidean embedded representation, our approach encodes the non-linearity of the DS within the curvature of the space. Having an explicit embedded representation of the manifold allows us to showcase obstacle avoidance by directly inducing local deformations of the space. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our methodology through two scenarios: first, the 2D learning of synthetic vector fields, and second, the learning of 3D robotic end-effector motions in real-world settings.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [549]
标题:  Explainable Reinforcement Learning-based Home Energy Management Systems  using Differentiable Decision Trees
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11947
作者:  Gargya Gokhale,  Bert Claessens,  Chris Develder
备注:  9 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:With the ongoing energy transition, demand-side flexibility has become an important aspect of the modern power grid for providing grid support and allowing further integration of sustainable energy sources. Besides traditional sources, the residential sector is another major and largely untapped source of flexibility, driven by the increased adoption of solar PV, home batteries, and EVs. However, unlocking this residential flexibility is challenging as it requires a control framework that can effectively manage household energy consumption, and maintain user comfort while being readily scalable across different, diverse houses. We aim to address this challenging problem and introduce a reinforcement learning-based approach using differentiable decision trees. This approach integrates the scalability of data-driven reinforcement learning with the explainability of (differentiable) decision trees. This leads to a controller that can be easily adapted across different houses and provides a simple control policy that can be explained to end-users, further improving user acceptance. As a proof-of-concept, we analyze our method using a home energy management problem, comparing its performance with commercially available rule-based baseline and standard neural network-based RL controllers. Through this preliminary study, we show that the performance of our proposed method is comparable to standard RL-based controllers, outperforming baseline controllers by ~20% in terms of daily cost savings while being straightforward to explain.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [550]
标题:  Kernel Modelling of Fading Memory Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11945
作者:  Yongkang Huo,  Thomas Chaffey,  Rodolphe Sepulchre
备注:  
Abstract:The paper introduces a kernel-based framework to model and identify time-invariant systems with the fading memory property. The key departure from the previous literature is to bypass the state-space representation of the model. Instead, a kernel representation is used to directly model the memory functional that maps past inputs to the present output. We explore the versatility of this approach to encode important system properties in the hyperparameters of the kernel. The approach is illustrated on the Hodgkin and Huxley model of neuronal excitability.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [551]
标题:  Exploring Facial Expression Recognition through Semi-Supervised  Pretraining and Temporal Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11942
作者:  Jun Yu,  Zhihong Wei,  Zhongpeng Cai,  Gongpeng Zhao,  Zerui Zhang,  Yongqi Wang,  Guochen Xie,  Jichao Zhu,  Wangyuan Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:Facial Expression Recognition (FER) plays a crucial role in computer vision and finds extensive applications across various fields. This paper aims to present our approach for the upcoming 6th Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-Wild (ABAW) competition, scheduled to be held at CVPR2024. In the facial expression recognition task, The limited size of the FER dataset poses a challenge to the expression recognition model's generalization ability, resulting in subpar recognition performance. To address this problem, we employ a semi-supervised learning technique to generate expression category pseudo-labels for unlabeled face data. At the same time, we uniformly sampled the labeled facial expression samples and implemented a debiased feedback learning strategy to address the problem of category imbalance in the dataset and the possible data bias in semi-supervised learning. Moreover, to further compensate for the limitation and bias of features obtained only from static images, we introduced a Temporal Encoder to learn and capture temporal relationships between neighbouring expression image features. In the 6th ABAW competition, our method achieved outstanding results on the official validation set, a result that fully confirms the effectiveness and competitiveness of our proposed method.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [552]
标题:  Perfect Zero-Knowledge PCPs for #P
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11941
作者:  Tom Gur,  Jack O'Connor,  Nicholas Spooner
备注:  
Abstract:We construct perfect zero-knowledge probabilistically checkable proofs (PZK-PCPs) for every language in #P. This is the first construction of a PZK-PCP for any language outside BPP. Furthermore, unlike previous constructions of (statistical) zero-knowledge PCPs, our construction simultaneously achieves non-adaptivity and zero knowledge against arbitrary (adaptive) polynomial-time malicious verifiers. Our construction consists of a novel masked sumcheck PCP, which uses the combinatorial nullstellensatz to obtain antisymmetric structure within the hypercube and randomness outside of it. To prove zero knowledge, we introduce the notion of locally simulatable encodings: randomised encodings in which every local view of the encoding can be efficiently sampled given a local view of the message. We show that the code arising from the sumcheck protocol (the Reed-Muller code augmented with subcube sums) admits a locally simulatable encoding. This reduces the algebraic problem of simulating our masked sumcheck to a combinatorial property of antisymmetric functions.
Subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)

**编号**: [553]
标题:  Multistep Inverse Is Not All You Need
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11940
作者:  Alexander Levine,  Peter Stone,  Amy Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:In real-world control settings, the observation space is often unnecessarily high-dimensional and subject to time-correlated noise. However, the controllable dynamics of the system are often far simpler than the dynamics of the raw observations. It is therefore desirable to learn an encoder to map the observation space to a simpler space of control-relevant variables. In this work, we consider the Ex-BMDP model, first proposed by Efroni et al. (2022), which formalizes control problems where observations can be factorized into an action-dependent latent state which evolves deterministically, and action-independent time-correlated noise. Lamb et al. (2022) proposes the "AC-State" method for learning an encoder to extract a complete action-dependent latent state representation from the observations in such problems. AC-State is a multistep-inverse method, in that it uses the encoding of the the first and last state in a path to predict the first action in the path. However, we identify cases where AC-State will fail to learn a correct latent representation of the agent-controllable factor of the state. We therefore propose a new algorithm, ACDF, which combines multistep-inverse prediction with a latent forward model. ACDF is guaranteed to correctly infer an action-dependent latent state encoder for a large class of Ex-BMDP models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of ACDF on tabular Ex-BMDPs through numerical simulations; as well as high-dimensional environments using neural-network-based encoders. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [554]
标题:  State space representations of the Roesser type for convolutional layers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11938
作者:  Patricia Pauli,  Dennis Gramlich,  Fran Allgöwer
备注:  
Abstract:From the perspective of control theory, convolutional layers (of neural networks) are 2-D (or N-D) linear time-invariant dynamical systems. The usual representation of convolutional layers by the convolution kernel corresponds to the representation of a dynamical system by its impulse response. However, many analysis tools from control theory, e.g., involving linear matrix inequalities, require a state space representation. For this reason, we explicitly provide a state space representation of the Roesser type for 2-D convolutional layers with $c_\mathrm{in}r_1 + c_\mathrm{out}r_2$ states, where $c_\mathrm{in}$/$c_\mathrm{out}$ is the number of input/output channels of the layer and $r_1$/$r_2$ characterizes the width/length of the convolution kernel. This representation is shown to be minimal for $c_\mathrm{in} = c_\mathrm{out}$. We further construct state space representations for dilated, strided, and N-D convolutions.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [555]
标题:  HyperColorization: Propagating spatially sparse noisy spectral clues for  reconstructing hyperspectral images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11935
作者:  M. Kerem Aydin,  Qi Guo,  Emma Alexander
备注:  16 Pages, 13 Figures, 3 Tables, for more information: this https URL
Abstract:Hyperspectral cameras face challenging spatial-spectral resolution trade-offs and are more affected by shot noise than RGB photos taken over the same total exposure time. Here, we present a colorization algorithm to reconstruct hyperspectral images from a grayscale guide image and spatially sparse spectral clues. We demonstrate that our algorithm generalizes to varying spectral dimensions for hyperspectral images, and show that colorizing in a low-rank space reduces compute time and the impact of shot noise. To enhance robustness, we incorporate guided sampling, edge-aware filtering, and dimensionality estimation techniques. Our method surpasses previous algorithms in various performance metrics, including SSIM, PSNR, GFC, and EMD, which we analyze as metrics for characterizing hyperspectral image quality. Collectively, these findings provide a promising avenue for overcoming the time-space-wavelength resolution trade-off by reconstructing a dense hyperspectral image from samples obtained by whisk or push broom scanners, as well as hybrid spatial-spectral computational imaging systems.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [556]
标题:  Consistency of Value of Information: Effects of Packet Loss and Time  Delay in Networked Control Systems Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11932
作者:  Touraj Soleymani,  John S. Baras,  Siyi Wang,  Sandra Hirche,  Karl H. Johansson
备注:  
Abstract:In this chapter, we study the consistency of the value of information$\unicode{x2014}$a semantic metric that claims to determine the right piece of information in networked control systems tasks$\unicode{x2014}$in a lossy and delayed communication regime. Our analysis begins with a focus on state estimation, and subsequently extends to feedback control. To that end, we make a causal tradeoff between the packet rate and the mean square error. Associated with this tradeoff, we demonstrate the existence of an optimal policy profile, comprising a symmetric threshold scheduling policy based on the value of information for the encoder and a non-Gaussian linear estimation policy for the decoder. Our structural results assert that the scheduling policy is expressible in terms of $3d-1$ variables related to the source and the channel, where $d$ is the time delay, and that the estimation policy incorporates no residual related to signaling. We then construct an optimal control policy by exploiting the separation principle.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [557]
标题:  LayerDiff: Exploring Text-guided Multi-layered Composable Image  Synthesis via Layer-Collaborative Diffusion Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11929
作者:  Runhui Huang,  Kaixin Cai,  Jianhua Han,  Xiaodan Liang,  Renjing Pei,  Guansong Lu,  Songcen Xu,  Wei Zhang,  Hang Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Despite the success of generating high-quality images given any text prompts by diffusion-based generative models, prior works directly generate the entire images, but cannot provide object-wise manipulation capability. To support wider real applications like professional graphic design and digital artistry, images are frequently created and manipulated in multiple layers to offer greater flexibility and control. Therefore in this paper, we propose a layer-collaborative diffusion model, named LayerDiff, specifically designed for text-guided, multi-layered, composable image synthesis. The composable image consists of a background layer, a set of foreground layers, and associated mask layers for each foreground element. To enable this, LayerDiff introduces a layer-based generation paradigm incorporating multiple layer-collaborative attention modules to capture inter-layer patterns. Specifically, an inter-layer attention module is designed to encourage information exchange and learning between layers, while a text-guided intra-layer attention module incorporates layer-specific prompts to direct the specific-content generation for each layer. A layer-specific prompt-enhanced module better captures detailed textual cues from the global prompt. Additionally, a self-mask guidance sampling strategy further unleashes the model's ability to generate multi-layered images. We also present a pipeline that integrates existing perceptual and generative models to produce a large dataset of high-quality, text-prompted, multi-layered images. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our LayerDiff model can generate high-quality multi-layered images with performance comparable to conventional whole-image generation methods. Moreover, LayerDiff enables a broader range of controllable generative applications, including layer-specific image editing and style transfer.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [558]
标题:  Foundations of Value of Information: A Semantic Metric for Networked  Control Systems Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11927
作者:  Touraj Soleymani,  John S. Baras,  Sandra Hirche,  Karl H. Johansson
备注:  
Abstract:In this chapter, we present our recent invention, i.e., the notion of the value of information$\unicode{x2014}$a semantic metric that is fundamental for networked control systems tasks. We begin our analysis by formulating a causal tradeoff between the packet rate and the regulation cost, with an encoder and a decoder as two distributed decision makers, and show that the valuation of information is conceivable and quantifiable grounded on this tradeoff. More precisely, we characterize an equilibrium, and quantify the value of information there as the variation in a value function with respect to a piece of sensory measurement that can be communicated from the encoder to the decoder at each time. We prove that, in feedback control of a dynamical process over a noiseless channel, the value of information is a function of the discrepancy between the state estimates at the encoder and the decoder, and that a data packet containing a sensory measurement at each time should be exchanged only if the value of information at that time is nonnegative. Finally, we prove that the characterized equilibrium is in fact globally optimal.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [559]
标题:  Relation between Value and Age of Information in Feedback Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11926
作者:  Touraj Soleymani,  John S. Baras,  Karl H. Johansson
备注:  
Abstract:In this chapter, we investigate the value of information as a more comprehensive instrument than the age of information for optimally shaping the information flow in a networked control system. In particular, we quantify the value of information based on the variation in a value function, and discuss the structural properties of this metric. Through our analysis, we establish the mathematical relation between the value of information and the age of information. We prove that the value of information is in general a function of an estimation discrepancy that depends on the age of information and the primitive variables. In addition, we prove that there exists a condition under which the value of information becomes completely expressible in terms of the age of information. Nonetheless, we show that this condition is not achievable without a degradation in the performance of the system.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [560]
标题:  Global Optimality without Mixing Time Oracles in Average-reward RL via  Multi-level Actor-Critic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11925
作者:  Bhrij Patel,  Wesley A. Suttle,  Alec Koppel,  Vaneet Aggarwal,  Brian M. Sadler,  Amrit Singh Bedi,  Dinesh Manocha
备注:  27 Pages, 2 Figures
Abstract:In the context of average-reward reinforcement learning, the requirement for oracle knowledge of the mixing time, a measure of the duration a Markov chain under a fixed policy needs to achieve its stationary distribution-poses a significant challenge for the global convergence of policy gradient methods. This requirement is particularly problematic due to the difficulty and expense of estimating mixing time in environments with large state spaces, leading to the necessity of impractically long trajectories for effective gradient estimation in practical applications. To address this limitation, we consider the Multi-level Actor-Critic (MAC) framework, which incorporates a Multi-level Monte Carlo (MLMC) gradient estimator. With our approach, we effectively alleviate the dependency on mixing time knowledge, a first for average-reward MDPs global convergence. Furthermore, our approach exhibits the tightest-available dependence of $\mathcal{O}\left( \sqrt{\tau_{mix}} \right)$ relative to prior work. With a 2D gridworld goal-reaching navigation experiment, we demonstrate that MAC achieves higher reward than a previous PG-based method for average reward, Parameterized Policy Gradient with Advantage Estimation (PPGAE), especially in cases with relatively small training sample budget restricting trajectory length.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [561]
标题:  Adaptative Bilingual Aligning Using Multilingual Sentence Embedding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11921
作者:  Olivier Kraif
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present an adaptive bitextual alignment system called AIlign. This aligner relies on sentence embeddings to extract reliable anchor points that can guide the alignment path, even for texts whose parallelism is fragmentary and not strictly monotonic. In an experiment on several datasets, we show that AIlign achieves results equivalent to the state of the art, with quasi-linear complexity. In addition, AIlign is able to handle texts whose parallelism and monotonicity properties are only satisfied locally, unlike recent systems such as Vecalign or Bertalign.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [562]
标题:  Bangladesh Agricultural Knowledge Graph: Enabling Semantic Integration  and Data-driven Analysis--Full Version
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11920
作者:  Rudra Pratap Deb Nath,  Tithi Rani Das,  Tonmoy Chandro Das,  S.M. Shafkat Raihan
备注:  40 pages, 15 figures
Abstract:In Bangladesh, agriculture is a crucial driver for addressing Sustainable Development Goal 1 (No Poverty) and 2 (Zero Hunger), playing a fundamental role in the economy and people's livelihoods. To enhance the sustainability and resilience of the agriculture industry through data-driven insights, the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics and other organizations consistently collect and publish agricultural data on the Web. Nevertheless, the current datasets encounter various challenges: 1) they are presented in an unsustainable, static, read-only, and aggregated format, 2) they do not conform to the Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reusability (FAIR) principles, and 3) they do not facilitate interactive analysis and integration with other data sources. In this paper, we present a thorough solution, delineating a systematic procedure for developing BDAKG: a knowledge graph that semantically and analytically integrates agriculture data in Bangladesh. BDAKG incorporates multidimensional semantics, is linked with external knowledge graphs, is compatible with OLAP, and adheres to the FAIR principles. Our experimental evaluation centers on evaluating the integration process and assessing the quality of the resultant knowledge graph in terms of completeness, timeliness, FAIRness, OLAP compatibility and data-driven analysis. Our federated data analysis recommend a strategic approach focused on decreasing CO$_2$ emissions, fostering economic growth, and promoting sustainable forestry.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [563]
标题:  A Coq Mechanization of JavaScript Regular Expression Semantics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11919
作者:  Noé De Santo,  Aurèle Barrière,  Clément Pit-Claudel
备注:  
Abstract:We present an executable, proven-safe, faithful, and future-proof Coq mechanization of JavaScript regular expression (regex) matching, as specified by the last published edition of ECMA-262 section 22.2. This is, to our knowledge, the first time that an industrial-strength regex language has been faithfully mechanized in an interactive theorem prover. We highlight interesting challenges that arose in the process (including issues of encoding, corner cases, and executability), and we document the steps that we took to ensure that the result is straightforwardly auditable and that our understanding of the spec aligns with existing implementations. We demonstrate the usability and versatility of the mechanization through a broad collection of analyses, case studies, and experiments: we prove that JavaScript regex matching always terminates and is safe (no assertion failures); we identifying subtle corner cases that led to mistakes in previous publications; we verify an optimization extracted from a state-of-the-art regex engine; we show that some classic properties described in automata textbooks and used in derivatives-based matchers do not hold in JavaScript regexes; and we demonstrate that the cost of updating the mechanization to account for changes in the original specification is reasonably low. Our mechanization can be extracted to OCaml and linked with Unicode libraries to produce an executable engine that passes the relevant parts of the official Test262 conformance test suite.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [564]
标题:  A general quadratic enrichment of the Crouzeix--Raviart finite element
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11915
作者:  Federico Nudo
备注:  
Abstract:The Crouzeix--Raviart finite element method is widely recognized in the field of finite element analysis due to its nonconforming nature. The main goal of this paper is to present a general strategy for enhancing the Crouzeix--Raviart finite element using quadratic polynomial functions and three additional general degrees of freedom. To achieve this, we present a characterization result on the enriched degrees of freedom, enabling to define a new enriched finite element. This general approach is employed to introduce two distinct admissible families of enriched degrees of freedom. Numerical results demonstrate an enhancement in the accuracy of the proposed method when compared to the standard Crouzeix--Raviart finite element, confirming the effectiveness of the proposed enrichment strategy.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [565]
标题:  Single-Agent Actor Critic for Decentralized Cooperative Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11914
作者:  Shengchao Yan,  Lukas König,  Wolfram Burgard
备注:  
Abstract:Active traffic management incorporating autonomous vehicles (AVs) promises a future with diminished congestion and enhanced traffic flow. However, developing algorithms for real-world application requires addressing the challenges posed by continuous traffic flow and partial observability. To bridge this gap and advance the field of active traffic management towards greater decentralization, we introduce a novel asymmetric actor-critic model aimed at learning decentralized cooperative driving policies for autonomous vehicles using single-agent reinforcement learning. Our approach employs attention neural networks with masking to handle the dynamic nature of real-world traffic flow and partial observability. Through extensive evaluations against baseline controllers across various traffic scenarios, our model shows great potential for improving traffic flow at diverse bottleneck locations within the road system. Additionally, we explore the challenge associated with the conservative driving behaviors of autonomous vehicles that adhere strictly to traffic regulations. The experiment results illustrate that our proposed cooperative policy can mitigate potential traffic slowdowns without compromising safety.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [566]
标题:  Numerical method for nonlinear Kolmogorov PDEs via sensitivity analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11910
作者:  Daniel Bartl,  Ariel Neufeld,  Kyunghyun Park
备注:  
Abstract:We examine nonlinear Kolmogorov partial differential equations (PDEs). Here the nonlinear part of the PDE comes from its Hamiltonian where one maximizes over all possible drift and diffusion coefficients which fall within a $\varepsilon$-neighborhood of pre-specified baseline coefficients. Our goal is to quantify and compute how sensitive those PDEs are to such a small nonlinearity, and then use the results to develop an efficient numerical method for their approximation. We show that as $\varepsilon\downarrow 0$, the nonlinear Kolmogorov PDE equals the linear Kolmogorov PDE defined with respect to the corresponding baseline coefficients plus $\varepsilon$ times a correction term which can be also characterized by the solution of another linear Kolmogorov PDE involving the baseline coefficients. As these linear Kolmogorov PDEs can be efficiently solved in high-dimensions by exploiting their Feynman-Kac representation, our derived sensitivity analysis then provides a Monte Carlo based numerical method which can efficiently solve these nonlinear Kolmogorov equations. We provide numerical examples in up to 100 dimensions to empirically demonstrate the applicability of our numerical method.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR)

**编号**: [567]
标题:  RoGUENeRF: A Robust Geometry-Consistent Universal Enhancer for NeRF
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11909
作者:  Sibi Catley-Chandar,  Richard Shaw,  Gregory Slabaugh,  Eduardo Perez-Pellitero
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advances in neural rendering have enabled highly photorealistic 3D scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis. Despite this progress, current state-of-the-art methods struggle to reconstruct high frequency detail, due to factors such as a low-frequency bias of radiance fields and inaccurate camera calibration. One approach to mitigate this issue is to enhance images post-rendering. 2D enhancers can be pre-trained to recover some detail but are agnostic to scene geometry and do not easily generalize to new distributions of image degradation. Conversely, existing 3D enhancers are able to transfer detail from nearby training images in a generalizable manner, but suffer from inaccurate camera calibration and can propagate errors from the geometry into rendered images. We propose a neural rendering enhancer, RoGUENeRF, which exploits the best of both paradigms. Our method is pre-trained to learn a general enhancer while also leveraging information from nearby training images via robust 3D alignment and geometry-aware fusion. Our approach restores high-frequency textures while maintaining geometric consistency and is also robust to inaccurate camera calibration. We show that RoGUENeRF substantially enhances the rendering quality of a wide range of neural rendering baselines, e.g. improving the PSNR of MipNeRF360 by 0.63dB and Nerfacto by 1.34dB on the real world 360v2 dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [568]
标题:  Distill2Explain: Differentiable decision trees for explainable  reinforcement learning in energy application controllers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11907
作者:  Gargya Gokhale,  Seyed Soroush Karimi Madahi,  Bert Claessens,  Chris Develder
备注:  14 pages, 6 figures, to be published in e-Energy 2024,
Abstract:Demand-side flexibility is gaining importance as a crucial element in the energy transition process. Accounting for about 25% of final energy consumption globally, the residential sector is an important (potential) source of energy flexibility. However, unlocking this flexibility requires developing a control framework that (1) easily scales across different houses, (2) is easy to maintain, and (3) is simple to understand for end-users. A potential control framework for such a task is data-driven control, specifically model-free reinforcement learning (RL). Such RL-based controllers learn a good control policy by interacting with their environment, learning purely based on data and with minimal human intervention. Yet, they lack explainability, which hampers user acceptance. Moreover, limited hardware capabilities of residential assets forms a hurdle (e.g., using deep neural networks). To overcome both those challenges, we propose a novel method to obtain explainable RL policies by using differentiable decision trees. Using a policy distillation approach, we train these differentiable decision trees to mimic standard RL-based controllers, leading to a decision tree-based control policy that is data-driven and easy to explain. As a proof-of-concept, we examine the performance and explainability of our proposed approach in a battery-based home energy management system to reduce energy costs. For this use case, we show that our proposed approach can outperform baseline rule-based policies by about 20-25%, while providing simple, explainable control policies. We further compare these explainable policies with standard RL policies and examine the performance trade-offs associated with this increased explainability.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [569]
标题:  Tur[k]ingBench: A Challenge Benchmark for Web Agents
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11905
作者:  Kevin Xu,  Yeganeh Kordi,  Kate Sanders,  Yizhong Wang,  Adam Byerly,  Jack Zhang,  Benjamin Van Durme,  Daniel Khashabi
备注:  
Abstract:Recent chatbots have demonstrated impressive ability to understand and communicate in raw-text form. However, there is more to the world than raw text. For example, humans spend long hours of their time on web pages, where text is intertwined with other modalities and tasks are accomplished in the form of various complex interactions. Can state-of-the-art multi-modal models generalize to such complex domains? To address this question, we introduce TurkingBench, a benchmark of tasks formulated as web pages containing textual instructions with multi-modal context. Unlike existing work which employs artificially synthesized web pages, here we use natural HTML pages that were originally designed for crowdsourcing workers for various annotation purposes. The HTML instructions of each task are also instantiated with various values (obtained from the crowdsourcing tasks) to form new instances of the task. This benchmark contains 32.2K instances distributed across 158 tasks. Additionally, to facilitate the evaluation on TurkingBench, we develop an evaluation framework that connects the responses of chatbots to modifications on web pages (modifying a text box, checking a radio, etc.). We evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art models, including language-only, vision-only, and layout-only models, and their combinations, on this benchmark. Our findings reveal that these models perform significantly better than random chance, yet considerable room exists for improvement. We hope this benchmark will help facilitate the evaluation and development of web-based agents.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [570]
标题:  CICLe: Conformal In-Context Learning for Largescale Multi-Class Food  Risk Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11904
作者:  Korbinian Randl,  John Pavlopoulos,  Aron Henriksson,  Tony Lindgren
备注:  
Abstract:Contaminated or adulterated food poses a substantial risk to human health. Given sets of labeled web texts for training, Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing can be applied to automatically detect such risks. We publish a dataset of 7,546 short texts describing public food recall announcements. Each text is manually labeled, on two granularity levels (coarse and fine), for food products and hazards that the recall corresponds to. We describe the dataset and benchmark naive, traditional, and Transformer models. Based on our analysis, Logistic Regression based on a tf-idf representation outperforms RoBERTa and XLM-R on classes with low support. Finally, we discuss different prompting strategies and present an LLM-in-the-loop framework, based on Conformal Prediction, which boosts the performance of the base classifier while reducing energy consumption compared to normal prompting.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [571]
标题:  A Closer Look at Claim Decomposition
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11903
作者:  Miriam Wanner,  Seth Ebner,  Zhengping Jiang,  Mark Dredze,  Benjamin Van Durme
备注:  
Abstract:As generated text becomes more commonplace, it is increasingly important to evaluate how well-supported such text is by external knowledge sources. Many approaches for evaluating textual support rely on some method for decomposing text into its individual subclaims which are scored against a trusted reference. We investigate how various methods of claim decomposition -- especially LLM-based methods -- affect the result of an evaluation approach such as the recently proposed FActScore, finding that it is sensitive to the decomposition method used. This sensitivity arises because such metrics attribute overall textual support to the model that generated the text even though error can also come from the metric's decomposition step. To measure decomposition quality, we introduce an adaptation of FActScore, which we call DecompScore. We then propose an LLM-based approach to generating decompositions inspired by Bertrand Russell's theory of logical atomism and neo-Davidsonian semantics and demonstrate its improved decomposition quality over previous methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [572]
标题:  Larimar: Large Language Models with Episodic Memory Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11901
作者:  Payel Das,  Subhajit Chaudhury,  Elliot Nelson,  Igor Melnyk,  Sarath Swaminathan,  Sihui Dai,  Aurélie Lozano,  Georgios Kollias,  Vijil Chenthamarakshan,  Jiří,  Navrátil,  Soham Dan,  Pin-Yu Chen
备注:  
Abstract:Efficient and accurate updating of knowledge stored in Large Language Models (LLMs) is one of the most pressing research challenges today. This paper presents Larimar - a novel, brain-inspired architecture for enhancing LLMs with a distributed episodic memory. Larimar's memory allows for dynamic, one-shot updates of knowledge without the need for computationally expensive re-training or fine-tuning. Experimental results on multiple fact editing benchmarks demonstrate that Larimar attains accuracy comparable to most competitive baselines, even in the challenging sequential editing setup, but also excels in speed - yielding speed-ups of 4-10x depending on the base LLM - as well as flexibility due to the proposed architecture being simple, LLM-agnostic, and hence general. We further provide mechanisms for selective fact forgetting and input context length generalization with Larimar and show their effectiveness.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [573]
标题:  GNeRP: Gaussian-guided Neural Reconstruction of Reflective Objects with  Noisy Polarization Priors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11899
作者:  LI Yang,  WU Ruizheng,  LI Jiyong,  CHEN Ying-cong
备注:  Accepted to ICLR 2024 Poster. For the Appendix, please see this http URL
Abstract:Learning surfaces from neural radiance field (NeRF) became a rising topic in Multi-View Stereo (MVS). Recent Signed Distance Function (SDF)-based methods demonstrated their ability to reconstruct accurate 3D shapes of Lambertian scenes. However, their results on reflective scenes are unsatisfactory due to the entanglement of specular radiance and complicated geometry. To address the challenges, we propose a Gaussian-based representation of normals in SDF fields. Supervised by polarization priors, this representation guides the learning of geometry behind the specular reflection and captures more details than existing methods. Moreover, we propose a reweighting strategy in the optimization process to alleviate the noise issue of polarization priors. To validate the effectiveness of our design, we capture polarimetric information, and ground truth meshes in additional reflective scenes with various geometry. We also evaluated our framework on the PANDORA dataset. Comparisons prove our method outperforms existing neural 3D reconstruction methods in reflective scenes by a large margin.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [574]
标题:  Visuo-Tactile Pretraining for Cable Plugging
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11898
作者:  Abraham George,  Selam Gano,  Pranav Katragadda,  Amir Barati Farimani
备注:  8 pages, 6 figures, submitted to IROS 2024
Abstract:Tactile information is a critical tool for fine-grain manipulation. As humans, we rely heavily on tactile information to understand objects in our environments and how to interact with them. We use touch not only to perform manipulation tasks but also to learn how to perform these tasks. Therefore, to create robotic agents that can learn to complete manipulation tasks at a human or super-human level of performance, we need to properly incorporate tactile information into both skill execution and skill learning. In this paper, we investigate how we can incorporate tactile information into imitation learning platforms to improve performance on complex tasks. To do this, we tackle the challenge of plugging in a USB cable, a dexterous manipulation task that relies on fine-grain visuo-tactile serving. By incorporating tactile information into imitation learning frameworks, we are able to train a robotic agent to plug in a USB cable - a first for imitation learning. Additionally, we explore how tactile information can be used to train non-tactile agents through a contrastive-loss pretraining process. Our results show that by pretraining with tactile information, the performance of a non-tactile agent can be significantly improved, reaching a level on par with visuo-tactile agents. For demonstration videos and access to our codebase, see the project website: this https URL
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [575]
标题:  Investigating Markers and Drivers of Gender Bias in Machine Translations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11896
作者:  Peter J Barclay,  Ashkan Sami (Edinburgh Napier University)
备注:  Accepted to SANER 2024; see this https URL
Abstract:Implicit gender bias in Large Language Models (LLMs) is a well-documented problem, and implications of gender introduced into automatic translations can perpetuate real-world biases. However, some LLMs use heuristics or post-processing to mask such bias, making investigation difficult. Here, we examine bias in LLMss via back-translation, using the DeepL translation API to investigate the bias evinced when repeatedly translating a set of 56 Software Engineering tasks used in a previous study. Each statement starts with 'she', and is translated first into a 'genderless' intermediate language then back into English; we then examine pronoun- choice in the back-translated texts. We expand prior research in the following ways: (1) by comparing results across five intermediate languages, namely Finnish, Indonesian, Estonian, Turkish and Hungarian; (2) by proposing a novel metric for assessing the variation in gender implied in the repeated translations, avoiding the over-interpretation of individual pronouns, apparent in earlier work; (3) by investigating sentence features that drive bias; (4) and by comparing results from three time-lapsed datasets to establish the reproducibility of the approach. We found that some languages display similar patterns of pronoun use, falling into three loose groups, but that patterns vary between groups; this underlines the need to work with multiple languages. We also identify the main verb appearing in a sentence as a likely significant driver of implied gender in the translations. Moreover, we see a good level of replicability in the results, and establish that our variation metric proves robust despite an obvious change in the behaviour of the DeepL translation API during the course of the study. These results show that the back-translation method can provide further insights into bias in language models.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computers and Society (cs.CY); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [576]
标题:  From explainable to interpretable deep learning for natural language  processing in healthcare: how far from reality?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11894
作者:  Guangming Huang,  Yunfei Long,  Yingya Li,  Giorgos Papanastasiou
备注:  
Abstract:Deep learning (DL) has substantially enhanced healthcare research by addressing various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Yet, the increasing complexity of DL-based NLP methods necessitates transparent model interpretability, or at least explainability, for reliable decision-making. This work presents a thorough scoping review on explainable and interpretable DL in healthcare NLP. The term "XIAI" (eXplainable and Interpretable Artificial Intelligence) was introduced to distinguish XAI from IAI. Methods were further categorized based on their functionality (model-, input-, output-based) and scope (local, global). Our analysis shows that attention mechanisms were the most dominant emerging IAI. Moreover, IAI is increasingly used against XAI. The major challenges identified are that most XIAI do not explore "global" modeling processes, the lack of best practices, and the unmet need for systematic evaluation and benchmarks. Important opportunities were raised such as using "attention" to enhance multi-modal XIAI for personalized medicine and combine DL with causal reasoning. Our discussion encourages the integration of XIAI in LLMs and domain-specific smaller models. Our review can stimulate further research and benchmarks toward improving inherent IAI and engaging complex NLP in healthcare.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [577]
标题:  KnFu: Effective Knowledge Fusion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11892
作者:  S. Jamal Seyedmohammadi,  S. Kawa Atapour,  Jamshid Abouei,  Arash Mohammadi
备注:  
Abstract:Federated Learning (FL) has emerged as a prominent alternative to the traditional centralized learning approach. Generally speaking, FL is a decentralized approach that allows for collaborative training of Machine Learning (ML) models across multiple local nodes, ensuring data privacy and security while leveraging diverse datasets. Conventional FL, however, is susceptible to gradient inversion attacks, restrictively enforces a uniform architecture on local models, and suffers from model heterogeneity (model drift) due to non-IID local datasets. To mitigate some of these challenges, the new paradigm of Federated Knowledge Distillation (FKD) has emerged. FDK is developed based on the concept of Knowledge Distillation (KD), which involves extraction and transfer of a large and well-trained teacher model's knowledge to lightweight student models. FKD, however, still faces the model drift issue. Intuitively speaking, not all knowledge is universally beneficial due to the inherent diversity of data among local nodes. This calls for innovative mechanisms to evaluate the relevance and effectiveness of each client's knowledge for others, to prevent propagation of adverse knowledge. In this context, the paper proposes Effective Knowledge Fusion (KnFu) algorithm that evaluates knowledge of local models to only fuse semantic neighbors' effective knowledge for each client. The KnFu is a personalized effective knowledge fusion scheme for each client, that analyzes effectiveness of different local models' knowledge prior to the aggregation phase. Comprehensive experiments were performed on MNIST and CIFAR10 datasets illustrating effectiveness of the proposed KnFu in comparison to its state-of-the-art counterparts. A key conclusion of the work is that in scenarios with large and highly heterogeneous local datasets, local training could be preferable to knowledge fusion-based solutions.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [578]
标题:  Comparative Analysis of Sub-band Allocation Algorithms in In-body  Sub-networks Supporting XR Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11891
作者:  Saeed Bagherinejad,  Thomas Jacobsen,  Nuno K. Pratas,  Ramoni O. Adeogun
备注:  Accepted for IEEE WCNC 2024
Abstract:In-body subnetworks (IBS) are envisioned to support reliable wireless connectivity for emerging applications including extended reality (XR) in the human body. As the deployment of in-body sub-networks is uncontrollable by nature, the dynamic radio resource allocation scheme in place becomes of the uttermost importance for the performance of the in-body sub-networks. This paper provides a comparative study on the performance of the state-of-the-art interference-aware sub-band allocation algorithms in in-body sub-networks supporting the XR applications. The study identified suitable models for characterizing in-body sub-networks which are used in a snapshot-based simulation framework to perform a comprehensive evaluation of the performance of state-of-art sub-band allocation algorithms, including greedy selection, sequential greedy selection (SG), centralized graph coloring (CGC), and sequential iterative sub-band allocation (SISA). The study shows that for XR requirements, the SISA and SG algorithms can support IBS densities up to 75% higher than CGC.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [579]
标题:  SuperLoRA: Parameter-Efficient Unified Adaptation of Multi-Layer  Attention Modules
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11887
作者:  Xiangyu Chen,  Jing Liu,  Ye Wang,  Pu Perry Wang,  Matthew Brand,  Guanghui Wang,  Toshiaki Koike-Akino
备注:  33 pages, 29 figures
Abstract:Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) and its variants are widely employed in fine-tuning large models, including large language models for natural language processing and diffusion models for computer vision. This paper proposes a generalized framework called SuperLoRA that unifies and extends different LoRA variants, which can be realized under different hyper-parameter settings. Introducing grouping, folding, shuffling, projecting, and tensor factoring, SuperLoRA offers high flexibility compared with other LoRA variants and demonstrates superior performance for transfer learning tasks especially in the extremely few-parameter regimes.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [580]
标题:  QueryAgent: A Reliable and Efficient Reasoning Framework with  Environmental Feedback based Self-Correction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11886
作者:  Xiang Huang,  Sitao Cheng,  Shanshan Huang,  Jiayu Shen,  Yong Xu,  Chaoyun Zhang,  Yuzhong Qu
备注:  ACL 2024 under review
Abstract:Employing Large Language Models (LLMs) for semantic parsing has achieved remarkable success. However, we find existing methods fall short in terms of reliability and efficiency when hallucinations are encountered. In this paper, we address these challenges with a framework called QueryAgent, which solves a question step-by-step and performs step-wise self-correction. We introduce an environmental feedback-based self-correction method called ERASER. Unlike traditional approaches, ERASER leverages rich environmental feedback in the intermediate steps to perform selective and differentiated self-correction only when necessary. Experimental results demonstrate that QueryAgent notably outperforms all previous few-shot methods using only one example on GrailQA and GraphQ by 7.0 and 15.0 F1. Moreover, our approach exhibits superiority in terms of efficiency, including runtime, query overhead, and API invocation costs. By leveraging ERASER, we further improve another baseline (i.e., AgentBench) by approximately 10 points, revealing the strong transferability of our approach.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [581]
标题:  Data-Enabled Predictive Repetitive Control
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11883
作者:  Kai Zhang,  Riccardo Zuliani,  Efe C. Balta,  John Lygeros
备注:  
Abstract:This work introduces the Data-Enabled Predictive Repetitive Control (DeePRC) algorithm, a direct data-driven approach for repetitive LTI systems. The DeePRC learns from previous iterations to improve its performance and achieves the optimal cost. By utilizing a tube-based variation of the DeePRC scheme, we propose a two-stage approach that enables safe active exploration using a left-kernel-based input disturbance design. This method generates informative trajectories to enrich the historical data, which extends the maximum achievable prediction horizon and leads to faster iteration convergence. In addition, we present an end-to-end formulation of the two-stage approach, integrating the disturbance design procedure into the planning phase. We showcase the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms on a numerical experiment.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [582]
标题:  ReGenNet: Towards Human Action-Reaction Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11882
作者:  Liang Xu,  Yizhou Zhou,  Yichao Yan,  Xin Jin,  Wenhan Zhu,  Fengyun Rao,  Xiaokang Yang,  Wenjun Zeng
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024, Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:Humans constantly interact with their surrounding environments. Current human-centric generative models mainly focus on synthesizing humans plausibly interacting with static scenes and objects, while the dynamic human action-reaction synthesis for ubiquitous causal human-human interactions is less explored. Human-human interactions can be regarded as asymmetric with actors and reactors in atomic interaction periods. In this paper, we comprehensively analyze the asymmetric, dynamic, synchronous, and detailed nature of human-human interactions and propose the first multi-setting human action-reaction synthesis benchmark to generate human reactions conditioned on given human actions. To begin with, we propose to annotate the actor-reactor order of the interaction sequences for the NTU120, InterHuman, and Chi3D datasets. Based on them, a diffusion-based generative model with a Transformer decoder architecture called ReGenNet together with an explicit distance-based interaction loss is proposed to predict human reactions in an online manner, where the future states of actors are unavailable to reactors. Quantitative and qualitative results show that our method can generate instant and plausible human reactions compared to the baselines, and can generalize to unseen actor motions and viewpoint changes.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [583]
标题:  Unimodal Multi-Task Fusion for Emotional Mimicry Prediciton
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11879
作者:  Tobias Hallmen,  Fabian Deuser,  Norbert Oswald,  Elisabeth André
备注:  
Abstract:In this study, we propose a methodology for the Emotional Mimicry Intensity (EMI) Estimation task within the context of the 6th Workshop and Competition on Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-wild. Our approach leverages the Wav2Vec 2.0 framework, pre-trained on a comprehensive podcast dataset, to extract a broad range of audio features encompassing both linguistic and paralinguistic elements. We enhance feature representation through a fusion technique that integrates individual features with a global mean vector, introducing global contextual insights into our analysis. Additionally, we incorporate a pre-trained valence- arousal-dominance (VAD) module from the Wav2Vec 2.0 model. Our fusion employs a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) architecture for efficient temporal analysis of audio data. Utilizing only the provided audio data, our approach demonstrates significant improvements over the established baseline.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [584]
标题:  InTeX: Interactive Text-to-texture Synthesis via Unified Depth-aware  Inpainting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11878
作者:  Jiaxiang Tang,  Ruijie Lu,  Xiaokang Chen,  Xiang Wen,  Gang Zeng,  Ziwei Liu
备注:  Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:Text-to-texture synthesis has become a new frontier in 3D content creation thanks to the recent advances in text-to-image models. Existing methods primarily adopt a combination of pretrained depth-aware diffusion and inpainting models, yet they exhibit shortcomings such as 3D inconsistency and limited controllability. To address these challenges, we introduce InteX, a novel framework for interactive text-to-texture synthesis. 1) InteX includes a user-friendly interface that facilitates interaction and control throughout the synthesis process, enabling region-specific repainting and precise texture editing. 2) Additionally, we develop a unified depth-aware inpainting model that integrates depth information with inpainting cues, effectively mitigating 3D inconsistencies and improving generation speed. Through extensive experiments, our framework has proven to be both practical and effective in text-to-texture synthesis, paving the way for high-quality 3D content creation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [585]
标题:  Efficient Training of Learning-Based Thermal Power Flow for 4th  Generation District Heating Grids
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11877
作者:  Andreas Bott,  Mario Beykirch,  Florian Steinke
备注:  The paper is submitted to Energy, special issue on Smart Energy Systems SESAAU2023 and is currently under review
Abstract:Thermal power flow (TPF) is an important task for various control purposes in 4 Th generation district heating grids with multiple decentral heat sources and meshed grid structures. Computing the TPF, i.e., determining the grid state consisting of temperatures, pressures, and mass flows for given supply and demand values, is classically done by solving the nonlinear heat grid equations, but can be sped up by orders of magnitude using learned models such as neural networks. We propose a novel, efficient scheme to generate a sufficiently large training data set covering relevant supply and demand values. Instead of sampling supply and demand values, our approach generates training examples from a proxy distribution over generator and consumer mass flows, omitting the iterations needed for solving the heat grid equations. The exact, but slightly different, training examples can be weighted to represent the original training distribution. We show with simulations for typical grid structures that the new approach can reduce training set generation times by two orders of magnitude compared to sampling supply and demand values directly, without loss of relevance for the training samples. Moreover, learning TPF with a training data set is shown to outperform sample-free, physics-aware training approaches significantly.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [586]
标题:  Deep Bayesian Future Fusion for Self-Supervised, High-Resolution,  Off-Road Mapping
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11876
作者:  Shubhra Aich,  Wenshan Wang,  Parv Maheshwari,  Matthew Sivaprakasam,  Samuel Triest,  Cherie Ho,  Jason M. Gregory,  John G. Rogers III,  Sebastian Scherer
备注:  
Abstract:The limited sensing resolution of resource-constrained off-road vehicles poses significant challenges towards reliable off-road autonomy. To overcome this limitation, we propose a general framework based on fusing the future information (i.e. future fusion) for self-supervision. Recent approaches exploit this future information alongside the hand-crafted heuristics to directly supervise the targeted downstream tasks (e.g. traversability estimation). However, in this paper, we opt for a more general line of development - time-efficient completion of the highest resolution (i.e. 2cm per pixel) BEV map in a self-supervised manner via future fusion, which can be used for any downstream tasks for better longer range prediction. To this end, first, we create a high-resolution future-fusion dataset containing pairs of (RGB / height) raw sparse and noisy inputs and map-based dense labels. Next, to accommodate the noise and sparsity of the sensory information, especially in the distal regions, we design an efficient realization of the Bayes filter onto the vanilla convolutional network via the recurrent mechanism. Equipped with the ideas from SOTA generative models, our Bayesian structure effectively predicts high-quality BEV maps in the distal regions. Extensive evaluation on both the quality of completion and downstream task on our future-fusion dataset demonstrates the potential of our approach.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [587]
标题:  Towards Real-Time Fast Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Detection Using Dynamic  Vision Sensors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11875
作者:  Jakub Mandula,  Jonas Kühne,  Luca Pascarella,  Michele Magno
备注:  Accepted at 2024 IEEE International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference (I2MTC)
Abstract:Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) are gaining popularity in civil and military applications. However, uncontrolled access to restricted areas threatens privacy and security. Thus, prevention and detection of UAVs are pivotal to guarantee confidentiality and safety. Although active scanning, mainly based on radars, is one of the most accurate technologies, it can be expensive and less versatile than passive inspections, e.g., object recognition. Dynamic vision sensors (DVS) are bio-inspired event-based vision models that leverage timestamped pixel-level brightness changes in fast-moving scenes that adapt well to low-latency object detection. This paper presents F-UAV-D (Fast Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Detector), an embedded system that enables fast-moving drone detection. In particular, we propose a setup to exploit DVS as an alternative to RGB cameras in a real-time and low-power configuration. Our approach leverages the high-dynamic range (HDR) and background suppression of DVS and, when trained with various fast-moving drones, outperforms RGB input in suboptimal ambient conditions such as low illumination and fast-moving scenes. Our results show that F-UAV-D can (i) detect drones by using less than <15 W on average and (ii) perform real-time inference (i.e., <50 ms) by leveraging the CPU and GPU nodes of our edge computer.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [588]
标题:  Benchmarking Analytical Query Processing in Intel SGXv2
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11874
作者:  Adrian Lutsch (1),  Muhammad El-Hindi (1),  Matthias Heinrich (1),  Daniel Ritter (2),  Zsolt István (1),  Carsten Binnig (1 and 3) ((1) Technical University of Darmstadt, (2) SAP SE, (3) DFKI)
备注:  14 pages, 17 figures, submitted for VLDB 2024 in the EA&B category, associated code is available under this https URL
Abstract:The recently introduced second generation of Intel SGX (SGXv2) lifts memory size limitations of the first generation. Theoretically, this promises to enable secure and highly efficient analytical DBMSs in the cloud. To validate this promise, in this paper, we conduct the first in-depth evaluation study of running analytical query processing algorithms inside SGXv2. Our study reveals that state-of-the-art query operators like radix joins and SIMD-based scans can indeed achieve high performance inside SGXv2 enclaves. These operations are orders of magnitude faster than joins optimized for the discontinued SGXv1 hardware. However, substantial performance overheads are still caused by subtle hardware and software differences influencing code execution inside an SGX enclave. We investigate these differences and propose new optimizations to bring the performance inside the enclave on par with native code execution outside an enclave.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [589]
标题:  CO3: Low-resource Contrastive Co-training for Generative Conversational  Query Rewrite
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11873
作者:  Yifei Yuan,  Chen Shi,  Runze Wang,  Liyi Chen,  Renjun Hu,  Zengming Zhang,  Feijun Jiang,  Wai Lam
备注:  Accepted to COLING 2024
Abstract:Generative query rewrite generates reconstructed query rewrites using the conversation history while rely heavily on gold rewrite pairs that are expensive to obtain. Recently, few-shot learning is gaining increasing popularity for this task, whereas these methods are sensitive to the inherent noise due to limited data size. Besides, both attempts face performance degradation when there exists language style shift between training and testing cases. To this end, we study low-resource generative conversational query rewrite that is robust to both noise and language style shift. The core idea is to utilize massive unlabeled data to make further improvements via a contrastive co-training paradigm. Specifically, we co-train two dual models (namely Rewriter and Simplifier) such that each of them provides extra guidance through pseudo-labeling for enhancing the other in an iterative manner. We also leverage contrastive learning with data augmentation, which enables our model pay more attention on the truly valuable information than the noise. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our model under both few-shot and zero-shot scenarios. We also verify the better generalization ability of our model when encountering language style shift.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [590]
标题:  IDF-CR: Iterative Diffusion Process for Divide-and-Conquer Cloud Removal  in Remote-sensing Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11870
作者:  Meilin Wang,  Yexing Song,  Pengxu Wei,  Xiaoyu Xian,  Yukai Shi,  Liang Lin
备注:  Accepted by IEEE TGRS, we first present an iterative diffusion process for cloud removal, the code is available at: this https URL
Abstract:Deep learning technologies have demonstrated their effectiveness in removing cloud cover from optical remote-sensing images. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) exert dominance in the cloud removal tasks. However, constrained by the inherent limitations of convolutional operations, CNNs can address only a modest fraction of cloud occlusion. In recent years, diffusion models have achieved state-of-the-art (SOTA) proficiency in image generation and reconstruction due to their formidable generative capabilities. Inspired by the rapid development of diffusion models, we first present an iterative diffusion process for cloud removal (IDF-CR), which exhibits a strong generative capabilities to achieve component divide-and-conquer cloud removal. IDF-CR consists of a pixel space cloud removal module (Pixel-CR) and a latent space iterative noise diffusion network (IND). Specifically, IDF-CR is divided into two-stage models that address pixel space and latent space. The two-stage model facilitates a strategic transition from preliminary cloud reduction to meticulous detail refinement. In the pixel space stage, Pixel-CR initiates the processing of cloudy images, yielding a suboptimal cloud removal prior to providing the diffusion model with prior cloud removal knowledge. In the latent space stage, the diffusion model transforms low-quality cloud removal into high-quality clean output. We refine the Stable Diffusion by implementing ControlNet. In addition, an unsupervised iterative noise refinement (INR) module is introduced for diffusion model to optimize the distribution of the predicted noise, thereby enhancing advanced detail recovery. Our model performs best with other SOTA methods, including image reconstruction and optical remote-sensing cloud removal on the optical remote-sensing datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [591]
标题:  Rapidly Deployable Intelligent 5G Aerial Neutral Host Networks: an  O-RAN-Based Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11869
作者:  Yi Chu,  David Grace,  Josh Shackleton,  Andy White,  David Hunter,  Hamed Ahmadi
备注:  
Abstract:Arxiv is acting weird and throwing error: "Bad character(s) in field Abstract." for no reason. Please refer to the manuscript.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [592]
标题:  View-Consistent 3D Editing with Gaussian Splatting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11868
作者:  Yuxuan Wang,  Xuanyu Yi,  Zike Wu,  Na Zhao,  Long Chen,  Hanwang Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:The advent of 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) has revolutionized 3D editing, offering efficient, high-fidelity rendering and enabling precise local manipulations. Currently, diffusion-based 2D editing models are harnessed to modify multi-view rendered images, which then guide the editing of 3DGS models. However, this approach faces a critical issue of multi-view inconsistency, where the guidance images exhibit significant discrepancies across views, leading to mode collapse and visual artifacts of 3DGS. To this end, we introduce View-consistent Editing (VcEdit), a novel framework that seamlessly incorporates 3DGS into image editing processes, ensuring multi-view consistency in edited guidance images and effectively mitigating mode collapse issues. VcEdit employs two innovative consistency modules: the Cross-attention Consistency Module and the Editing Consistency Module, both designed to reduce inconsistencies in edited images. By incorporating these consistency modules into an iterative pattern, VcEdit proficiently resolves the issue of multi-view inconsistency, facilitating high-quality 3DGS editing across a diverse range of scenes.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [593]
标题:  Exploring Multi-modal Neural Scene Representations With Applications on  Thermal Imaging
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11865
作者:  Mert Özer,  Maximilian Weiherer,  Martin Hundhausen,  Bernhard Egger
备注:  24 pages, 14 figures
Abstract:Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) quickly evolved as the new de-facto standard for the task of novel view synthesis when trained on a set of RGB images. In this paper, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of neural scene representations, such as NeRFs, in the context of multi-modal learning. Specifically, we present four different strategies of how to incorporate a second modality, other than RGB, into NeRFs: (1) training from scratch independently on both modalities; (2) pre-training on RGB and fine-tuning on the second modality; (3) adding a second branch; and (4) adding a separate component to predict (color) values of the additional modality. We chose thermal imaging as second modality since it strongly differs from RGB in terms of radiosity, making it challenging to integrate into neural scene representations. For the evaluation of the proposed strategies, we captured a new publicly available multi-view dataset, ThermalMix, consisting of six common objects and about 360 RGB and thermal images in total. We employ cross-modality calibration prior to data capturing, leading to high-quality alignments between RGB and thermal images. Our findings reveal that adding a second branch to NeRF performs best for novel view synthesis on thermal images while also yielding compelling results on RGB. Finally, we also show that our analysis generalizes to other modalities, including near-infrared images and depth maps. Project page: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [594]
标题:  Context-aware LLM-based Safe Control Against Latent Risks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11863
作者:  Quan Khanh Luu,  Xiyu Deng,  Anh Van Ho,  Yorie Nakahira
备注:  
Abstract:It is challenging for autonomous control systems to perform complex tasks in the presence of latent risks. Motivated by this challenge, this paper proposes an integrated framework that involves Large Language Models (LLMs), stochastic gradient descent (SGD), and optimization-based control. In the first phrase, the proposed framework breaks down complex tasks into a sequence of smaller subtasks, whose specifications account for contextual information and latent risks. In the second phase, these subtasks and their parameters are refined through a dual process involving LLMs and SGD. LLMs are used to generate rough guesses and failure explanations, and SGD is used to fine-tune parameters. The proposed framework is tested using simulated case studies of robots and vehicles. The experiments demonstrate that the proposed framework can mediate actions based on the context and latent risks and learn complex behaviors efficiently.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [595]
标题:  Robustly Guarding Polygons
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11861
作者:  Rathish Das,  Omrit Filtser,  Matthew J. Katz,  Joseph S.B. Mitchell
备注:  To appear in SoCG 2024
Abstract:We propose precise notions of what it means to guard a domain "robustly", under a variety of models. While approximation algorithms for minimizing the number of (precise) point guards in a polygon is a notoriously challenging area of investigation, we show that imposing various degrees of robustness on the notion of visibility coverage leads to a more tractable (and realistic) problem for which we can provide approximation algorithms with constant factor guarantees.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [596]
标题:  Towards automated formal security analysis of SAML V2.0 Web Browser SSO  standard - the POST/Artifact use case
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11859
作者:  Zvonimir Hartl,  Ante Đerek
备注:  
Abstract:Single Sign-On (SSO) protocols streamline user authentication with a unified login for multiple online services, improving usability and security. One of the most common SSO protocol frameworks - the Security Assertion Markup Language V2.0 (SAML) Web SSO Profile - has been in use for more than two decades, primarily in government, education and enterprise environments. Despite its mission-critical nature, only certain deployments and configurations of the Web SSO Profile have been formally analyzed. This paper attempts to bridge this gap by performing a comprehensive formal security analysis of the SAML V2.0 SP-initiated SSO with POST/Artifact Bindings use case. Rather than focusing on a specific deployment and configuration, we closely follow the specification with the goal of capturing many different deployments allowed by the standard. Modeling and analysis is performed using Tamarin prover - state-of-the-art tool for automated verification of security protocols in the symbolic model of cryptography. Technically, we build a meta-model of the use case that we instantiate to eight different protocol variants. Using the Tamarin prover, we formally verify a number of critical security properties for those protocol variants, while identifying certain drawbacks and potential vulnerabilities.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [597]
标题:  GPT-4 as Evaluator: Evaluating Large Language Models on Pest Management  in Agriculture
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11858
作者:  Shanglong Yang,  Zhipeng Yuan,  Shunbao Li,  Ruoling Peng,  Kang Liu,  Po Yang
备注:  
Abstract:In the rapidly evolving field of artificial intelligence (AI), the application of large language models (LLMs) in agriculture, particularly in pest management, remains nascent. We aimed to prove the feasibility by evaluating the content of the pest management advice generated by LLMs, including the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) series from OpenAI and the FLAN series from Google. Considering the context-specific properties of agricultural advice, automatically measuring or quantifying the quality of text generated by LLMs becomes a significant challenge. We proposed an innovative approach, using GPT-4 as an evaluator, to score the generated content on Coherence, Logical Consistency, Fluency, Relevance, Comprehensibility, and Exhaustiveness. Additionally, we integrated an expert system based on crop threshold data as a baseline to obtain scores for Factual Accuracy on whether pests found in crop fields should take management action. Each model's score was weighted by percentage to obtain a final score. The results showed that GPT-3.4 and GPT-4 outperform the FLAN models in most evaluation categories. Furthermore, the use of instruction-based prompting containing domain-specific knowledge proved the feasibility of LLMs as an effective tool in agriculture, with an accuracy rate of 72%, demonstrating LLMs' effectiveness in providing pest management suggestions.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [598]
标题:  Complete and Efficient Graph Transformers for Crystal Material Property  Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11857
作者:  Keqiang Yan,  Cong Fu,  Xiaofeng Qian,  Xiaoning Qian,  Shuiwang Ji
备注:  This paper has been accepted by ICLR 2024
Abstract:Crystal structures are characterized by atomic bases within a primitive unit cell that repeats along a regular lattice throughout 3D space. The periodic and infinite nature of crystals poses unique challenges for geometric graph representation learning. Specifically, constructing graphs that effectively capture the complete geometric information of crystals and handle chiral crystals remains an unsolved and challenging problem. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach that utilizes the periodic patterns of unit cells to establish the lattice-based representation for each atom, enabling efficient and expressive graph representations of crystals. Furthermore, we propose ComFormer, a SE(3) transformer designed specifically for crystalline materials. ComFormer includes two variants; namely, iComFormer that employs invariant geometric descriptors of Euclidean distances and angles, and eComFormer that utilizes equivariant vector representations. Experimental results demonstrate the state-of-the-art predictive accuracy of ComFormer variants on various tasks across three widely-used crystal benchmarks. Our code is publicly available as part of the AIRS library (this https URL).
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)

**编号**: [599]
标题:  Reinforcement Learning with Latent State Inference for Autonomous  On-ramp Merging under Observation Delay
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11852
作者:  Amin Tabrizian,  Zhitong Huang,  Peng Wei
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents a novel approach to address the challenging problem of autonomous on-ramp merging, where a self-driving vehicle needs to seamlessly integrate into a flow of vehicles on a multi-lane highway. We introduce the Lane-keeping, Lane-changing with Latent-state Inference and Safety Controller (L3IS) agent, designed to perform the on-ramp merging task safely without comprehensive knowledge about surrounding vehicles' intents or driving styles. We also present an augmentation of this agent called AL3IS that accounts for observation delays, allowing the agent to make more robust decisions in real-world environments with vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication delays. By modeling the unobservable aspects of the environment through latent states, such as other drivers' intents, our approach enhances the agent's ability to adapt to dynamic traffic conditions, optimize merging maneuvers, and ensure safe interactions with other vehicles. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method through extensive simulations generated from real traffic data and compare its performance with existing approaches. L3IS shows a 99.90% success rate in a challenging on-ramp merging case generated from the real US Highway 101 data. We further perform a sensitivity analysis on AL3IS to evaluate its robustness against varying observation delays, which demonstrates an acceptable performance of 93.84% success rate in 1-second V2V communication delay.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [600]
标题:  GraphBEV: Towards Robust BEV Feature Alignment for Multi-Modal 3D Object  Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11848
作者:  Ziying Song,  Lei Yang,  Shaoqing Xu,  Lin Liu,  Dongyang Xu,  Caiyan Jia,  Feiyang Jia,  Li Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Integrating LiDAR and camera information into Bird's-Eye-View (BEV) representation has emerged as a crucial aspect of 3D object detection in autonomous driving. However, existing methods are susceptible to the inaccurate calibration relationship between LiDAR and the camera sensor. Such inaccuracies result in errors in depth estimation for the camera branch, ultimately causing misalignment between LiDAR and camera BEV features. In this work, we propose a robust fusion framework called Graph BEV. Addressing errors caused by inaccurate point cloud projection, we introduce a Local Align module that employs neighbor-aware depth features via Graph matching. Additionally, we propose a Global Align module to rectify the misalignment between LiDAR and camera BEV features. Our Graph BEV framework achieves state-of-the-art performance, with an mAP of 70.1\%, surpassing BEV Fusion by 1.6\% on the nuscenes validation set. Importantly, our Graph BEV outperforms BEV Fusion by 8.3\% under conditions with misalignment noise.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [601]
标题:  On the solution existence for collocation discretizations of  time-fractional subdiffusion equations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11847
作者:  Sebastian Franz,  Natalia Kopteva
备注:  17 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Time-fractional parabolic equations with a Caputo time derivative of order $\alpha\in(0,1)$ are discretized in time using continuous collocation methods. For such discretizations, we give sufficient conditions for existence and uniqueness of their solutions. Two approaches are explored: the Lax-Milgram Theorem and the eigenfunction expansion. The resulting sufficient conditions, which involve certain $m\times m$ matrices (where $m$ is the order of the collocation scheme), are verified both analytically, for all $m\ge 1$ and all sets of collocation points, and computationally, for all $ m\le 20$. The semilinear case is also addressed.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [602]
标题:  Near-Optimal Solutions of Constrained Learning Problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11844
作者:  Juan Elenter,  Luiz F. O. Chamon,  Alejandro Ribeiro
备注:  
Abstract:With the widespread adoption of machine learning systems, the need to curtail their behavior has become increasingly apparent. This is evidenced by recent advancements towards developing models that satisfy robustness, safety, and fairness requirements. These requirements can be imposed (with generalization guarantees) by formulating constrained learning problems that can then be tackled by dual ascent algorithms. Yet, though these algorithms converge in objective value, even in non-convex settings, they cannot guarantee that their outcome is feasible. Doing so requires randomizing over all iterates, which is impractical in virtually any modern applications. Still, final iterates have been observed to perform well in practice. In this work, we address this gap between theory and practice by characterizing the constraint violation of Lagrangian minimizers associated with optimal dual variables, despite lack of convexity. To do this, we leverage the fact that non-convex, finite-dimensional constrained learning problems can be seen as parametrizations of convex, functional problems. Our results show that rich parametrizations effectively mitigate the issue of feasibility in dual methods, shedding light on prior empirical successes of dual learning. We illustrate our findings in fair learning tasks.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Signal Processing (eess.SP); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [603]
标题:  Fuzzy Rough Choquet Distances for Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11843
作者:  Adnan Theerens,  Chris Cornelis
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces a novel Choquet distance using fuzzy rough set based measures. The proposed distance measure combines the attribute information received from fuzzy rough set theory with the flexibility of the Choquet integral. This approach is designed to adeptly capture non-linear relationships within the data, acknowledging the interplay of the conditional attributes towards the decision attribute and resulting in a more flexible and accurate distance. We explore its application in the context of machine learning, with a specific emphasis on distance-based classification approaches (e.g. k-nearest neighbours). The paper examines two fuzzy rough set based measures that are based on the positive region. Moreover, we explore two procedures for monotonizing the measures derived from fuzzy rough set theory, making them suitable for use with the Choquet integral, and investigate their differences.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [604]
标题:  Multi-Criteria Comparison as a Method of Advancing Knowledge-Guided  Machine Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11840
作者:  Jason L. Harman,  Jaelle Scheuerman
备注:  Paper presented at AAAI 2022 Fall Symposium on Knowledge Guided Machine Learning, Washington D.C
Abstract:This paper describes a generalizable model evaluation method that can be adapted to evaluate AI/ML models across multiple criteria including core scientific principles and more practical outcomes. Emerging from prediction competitions in Psychology and Decision Science, the method evaluates a group of candidate models of varying type and structure across multiple scientific, theoretic, and practical criteria. Ordinal ranking of criteria scores are evaluated using voting rules from the field of computational social choice and allow the comparison of divergent measures and types of models in a holistic evaluation. Additional advantages and applications are discussed.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [605]
标题:  Ensuring Safe and High-Quality Outputs: A Guideline Library Approach for  Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11838
作者:  Yi Luo,  Zhenghao Lin,  Yuhao Zhang,  Jiashuo Sun,  Chen Lin,  Chengjin Xu,  Xiangdong Su,  Yelong Shen,  Jian Guo,  Yeyun Gong
备注:  NAACL 2024
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit impressive capabilities but also present risks such as biased content generation and privacy issues. One of the current alignment techniques includes principle-driven integration, but it faces challenges arising from the imprecision of manually crafted rules and inadequate risk perception in models without safety training. To address these, we introduce Guide-Align, a two-stage approach. Initially, a safety-trained model identifies potential risks and formulates specific guidelines for various inputs, thereby establishing a comprehensive library of guidelines and models for input-guidelines retrieval. Subsequently, the retrieval model correlates new inputs with pertinent guidelines, guiding LLMs in response generation to ensure safe and high-quality outputs, thus aligning with human values. An additional optional stage involves fine-tuning a model with new well-aligned datasets generated through the process implemented in the second stage. Our method customizes guidelines to accommodate diverse inputs, thereby enhancing the fine-grainedness and comprehensiveness of the guideline library. Furthermore, it incorporates safety expertise from a safety-trained LLM through a lightweight retrieval model. We evaluated our approach on three benchmarks, demonstrating significant improvements in LLM security and quality. Notably, our fine-tuned model, Labrador, even at 13 billion parameters, outperforms GPT-3.5-turbo and surpasses GPT-4 in alignment capabilities.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [606]
标题:  Stochastic Mean Field Game for Strategic Bidding of Consumers in  Congested Distribution Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11836
作者:  Amirreza Silani,  Simon H. Tindemans
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid increase of photovoltaic cells, batteries, and Electric Vehicles (EVs) in electric grids can result in congested distribution networks. An alternative to enhancing network capacity is a redispatch market, allowing Distribution System Operators (DSOs) to alleviate congested networks by asking energy consumers to change their consumption schedules. However, energy consumers can anticipate the redispatch market outcomes and strategically adjust their bids in the day-ahead market. This behaviour, known as increase-decrease gaming, can result in the exacerbation of congestion and enable energy consumers to gain windfall profits from the DSO. In this paper, we consider a two-stage problem consisting of the day-ahead market (first stage) and redispatch market (second stage). Then, we model the increase-decrease game for large populations of energy consumers in power networks using a stochastic mean field game approach. The agents (energy consumers) maximize their individual welfare in the day-ahead market with anticipation of the redispatch market. We show that all the agent strategies are ordered along their utilities and there exists a unique Nash equilibrium for this game.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [607]
标题:  Agent3D-Zero: An Agent for Zero-shot 3D Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11835
作者:  Sha Zhang,  Di Huang,  Jiajun Deng,  Shixiang Tang,  Wanli Ouyang,  Tong He,  Yanyong Zhang
备注:  project page: this https URL
Abstract:The ability to understand and reason the 3D real world is a crucial milestone towards artificial general intelligence. The current common practice is to finetune Large Language Models (LLMs) with 3D data and texts to enable 3D understanding. Despite their effectiveness, these approaches are inherently limited by the scale and diversity of the available 3D data. Alternatively, in this work, we introduce Agent3D-Zero, an innovative 3D-aware agent framework addressing the 3D scene understanding in a zero-shot manner. The essence of our approach centers on reconceptualizing the challenge of 3D scene perception as a process of understanding and synthesizing insights from multiple images, inspired by how our human beings attempt to understand 3D scenes. By consolidating this idea, we propose a novel way to make use of a Large Visual Language Model (VLM) via actively selecting and analyzing a series of viewpoints for 3D understanding. Specifically, given an input 3D scene, Agent3D-Zero first processes a bird's-eye view image with custom-designed visual prompts, then iteratively chooses the next viewpoints to observe and summarize the underlying knowledge. A distinctive advantage of Agent3D-Zero is the introduction of novel visual prompts, which significantly unleash the VLMs' ability to identify the most informative viewpoints and thus facilitate observing 3D scenes. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework in understanding diverse and previously unseen 3D environments.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [608]
标题:  Towards Understanding the Relationship between In-context Learning and  Compositional Generalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11834
作者:  Sungjun Han,  Sebastian Padó
备注:  To be published in LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:According to the principle of compositional generalization, the meaning of a complex expression can be understood as a function of the meaning of its parts and of how they are combined. This principle is crucial for human language processing and also, arguably, for NLP models in the face of out-of-distribution data. However, many neural network models, including Transformers, have been shown to struggle with compositional generalization. In this paper, we hypothesize that forcing models to in-context learn can provide an inductive bias to promote compositional generalization. To test this hypothesis, we train a causal Transformer in a setting that renders ordinary learning very difficult: we present it with different orderings of the training instance and shuffle instance labels. This corresponds to training the model on all possible few-shot learning problems attainable from the dataset. The model can solve the task, however, by utilizing earlier examples to generalize to later ones (i.e. in-context learning). In evaluations on the datasets, SCAN, COGS, and GeoQuery, models trained in this manner indeed show improved compositional generalization. This indicates the usefulness of in-context learning problems as an inductive bias for generalization.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [609]
标题:  SSCAE -- Semantic, Syntactic, and Context-aware natural language  Adversarial Examples generator
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11833
作者:  Javad Rafiei Asl,  Mohammad H. Rafiei,  Manar Alohaly,  Daniel Takabi
备注:  
Abstract:Machine learning models are vulnerable to maliciously crafted Adversarial Examples (AEs). Training a machine learning model with AEs improves its robustness and stability against adversarial attacks. It is essential to develop models that produce high-quality AEs. Developing such models has been much slower in natural language processing (NLP) than in areas such as computer vision. This paper introduces a practical and efficient adversarial attack model called SSCAE for \textbf{S}emantic, \textbf{S}yntactic, and \textbf{C}ontext-aware natural language \textbf{AE}s generator. SSCAE identifies important words and uses a masked language model to generate an early set of substitutions. Next, two well-known language models are employed to evaluate the initial set in terms of semantic and syntactic characteristics. We introduce (1) a dynamic threshold to capture more efficient perturbations and (2) a local greedy search to generate high-quality AEs. As a black-box method, SSCAE generates humanly imperceptible and context-aware AEs that preserve semantic consistency and the source language's syntactical and grammatical requirements. The effectiveness and superiority of the proposed SSCAE model are illustrated with fifteen comparative experiments and extensive sensitivity analysis for parameter optimization. SSCAE outperforms the existing models in all experiments while maintaining a higher semantic consistency with a lower query number and a comparable perturbation rate.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [610]
标题:  BAD-Gaussians: Bundle Adjusted Deblur Gaussian Splatting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11831
作者:  Lingzhe Zhao,  Peng Wang,  Peidong Liu
备注:  Project Page and Source Code: this https URL
Abstract:While neural rendering has demonstrated impressive capabilities in 3D scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis, it heavily relies on high-quality sharp images and accurate camera poses. Numerous approaches have been proposed to train Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) with motion-blurred images, commonly encountered in real-world scenarios such as low-light or long-exposure conditions. However, the implicit representation of NeRF struggles to accurately recover intricate details from severely motion-blurred images and cannot achieve real-time rendering. In contrast, recent advancements in 3D Gaussian Splatting achieve high-quality 3D scene reconstruction and real-time rendering by explicitly optimizing point clouds as Gaussian spheres. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach, named BAD-Gaussians (Bundle Adjusted Deblur Gaussian Splatting), which leverages explicit Gaussian representation and handles severe motion-blurred images with inaccurate camera poses to achieve high-quality scene reconstruction. Our method models the physical image formation process of motion-blurred images and jointly learns the parameters of Gaussians while recovering camera motion trajectories during exposure time. In our experiments, we demonstrate that BAD-Gaussians not only achieves superior rendering quality compared to previous state-of-the-art deblur neural rendering methods on both synthetic and real datasets but also enables real-time rendering capabilities. Our project page and source code is available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [611]
标题:  Problem space structural adversarial attacks for Network Intrusion  Detection Systems based on Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11830
作者:  Andrea Venturi,  Dario Stabili,  Mirco Marchetti
备注:  preprint submitted to IEEE TIFS, under review
Abstract:Machine Learning (ML) algorithms have become increasingly popular for supporting Network Intrusion Detection Systems (NIDS). Nevertheless, extensive research has shown their vulnerability to adversarial attacks, which involve subtle perturbations to the inputs of the models aimed at compromising their performance. Recent proposals have effectively leveraged Graph Neural Networks (GNN) to produce predictions based also on the structural patterns exhibited by intrusions to enhance the detection robustness. However, the adoption of GNN-based NIDS introduces new types of risks. In this paper, we propose the first formalization of adversarial attacks specifically tailored for GNN in network intrusion detection. Moreover, we outline and model the problem space constraints that attackers need to consider to carry out feasible structural attacks in real-world scenarios. As a final contribution, we conduct an extensive experimental campaign in which we launch the proposed attacks against state-of-the-art GNN-based NIDS. Our findings demonstrate the increased robustness of the models against classical feature-based adversarial attacks, while highlighting their susceptibility to structure-based attacks.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [612]
标题:  Sound Event Detection and Localization with Distance Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11827
作者:  Daniel Aleksander Krause,  Archontis Politis,  Annamaria Mesaros
备注:  This paper has been submitted for the 32nd European Signal Processing Conference EUSIPCO 2024 in Lyon
Abstract:Sound Event Detection and Localization (SELD) is a combined task of identifying sound events and their corresponding direction-of-arrival (DOA). While this task has numerous applications and has been extensively researched in recent years, it fails to provide full information about the sound source position. In this paper, we overcome this problem by extending the task to Sound Event Detection, Localization with Distance Estimation (3D SELD). We study two ways of integrating distance estimation within the SELD core - a multi-task approach, in which the problem is tackled by a separate model output, and a single-task approach obtained by extending the multi-ACCDOA method to include distance information. We investigate both methods for the Ambisonic and binaural versions of STARSS23: Sony-TAU Realistic Spatial Soundscapes 2023. Moreover, our study involves experiments on the loss function related to the distance estimation part. Our results show that it is possible to perform 3D SELD without any degradation of performance in sound event detection and DOA estimation.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [613]
标题:  Evaluating Text to Image Synthesis: Survey and Taxonomy of Image Quality  Metrics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11821
作者:  Sebastian Hartwig,  Dominik Engel,  Leon Sick,  Hannah Kniesel,  Tristan Payer,  Poonam,  Timo Ropinski
备注:  preprint, 18 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
Abstract:Recent advances in text-to-image synthesis have been enabled by exploiting a combination of language and vision through foundation models. These models are pre-trained on tremendous amounts of text-image pairs sourced from the World Wide Web or other large-scale databases. As the demand for high-quality image generation shifts towards ensuring content alignment between text and image, novel evaluation metrics have been developed with the aim of mimicking human judgments. Thus, researchers have started to collect datasets with increasingly complex annotations to study the compositionality of vision-language models and their incorporation as a quality measure of compositional alignment between text and image contents. In this work, we provide a comprehensive overview of existing text-to-image evaluation metrics and propose a new taxonomy for categorizing these metrics. We also review frequently adopted text-image benchmark datasets before discussing techniques to optimize text-to-image synthesis models towards quality and human preferences. Ultimately, we derive guidelines for improving text-to-image evaluation and discuss the open challenges and current limitations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [614]
标题:  TCNet: Continuous Sign Language Recognition from Trajectories and  Correlated Regions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11818
作者:  Hui Lu,  Albert Ali Salah,  Ronald Poppe
备注:  
Abstract:A key challenge in continuous sign language recognition (CSLR) is to efficiently capture long-range spatial interactions over time from the video input. To address this challenge, we propose TCNet, a hybrid network that effectively models spatio-temporal information from Trajectories and Correlated regions. TCNet's trajectory module transforms frames into aligned trajectories composed of continuous visual tokens. In addition, for a query token, self-attention is learned along the trajectory. As such, our network can also focus on fine-grained spatio-temporal patterns, such as finger movements, of a specific region in motion. TCNet's correlation module uses a novel dynamic attention mechanism that filters out irrelevant frame regions. Additionally, it assigns dynamic key-value tokens from correlated regions to each query. Both innovations significantly reduce the computation cost and memory. We perform experiments on four large-scale datasets: PHOENIX14, PHOENIX14-T, CSL, and CSL-Daily, respectively. Our results demonstrate that TCNet consistently achieves state-of-the-art performance. For example, we improve over the previous state-of-the-art by 1.5% and 1.0% word error rate on PHOENIX14 and PHOENIX14-T, respectively.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [615]
标题:  HVDistill: Transferring Knowledge from Images to Point Clouds via  Unsupervised Hybrid-View Distillation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11817
作者:  Sha Zhang,  Jiajun Deng,  Lei Bai,  Houqiang Li,  Wanli Ouyang,  Yanyong Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:We present a hybrid-view-based knowledge distillation framework, termed HVDistill, to guide the feature learning of a point cloud neural network with a pre-trained image network in an unsupervised man- ner. By exploiting the geometric relationship between RGB cameras and LiDAR sensors, the correspondence between the two modalities based on both image- plane view and bird-eye view can be established, which facilitates representation learning. Specifically, the image-plane correspondences can be simply ob- tained by projecting the point clouds, while the bird- eye-view correspondences can be achieved by lifting pixels to the 3D space with the predicted depths un- der the supervision of projected point clouds. The image teacher networks provide rich semantics from the image-plane view and meanwhile acquire geometric information from the bird-eye view. Indeed, image features from the two views naturally comple- ment each other and together can ameliorate the learned feature representation of the point cloud stu- dent networks. Moreover, with a self-supervised pre- trained 2D network, HVDistill requires neither 2D nor 3D annotations. We pre-train our model on nuScenes dataset and transfer it to several downstream tasks on nuScenes, SemanticKITTI, and KITTI datasets for evaluation. Extensive experimental results show that our method achieves consistent improvements over the baseline trained from scratch and significantly out- performs the existing schemes. Codes are available at git@github.com:zhangsha1024/HVDistill.git.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [616]
标题:  Symmetry-based Abstraction Algorithm for Accelerating Symbolic Control  Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11816
作者:  Hussein Sibai,  Sacha Huriot,  Tyler Martin,  Murat Arcak
备注:  
Abstract:We propose an efficient symbolic control synthesis algorithm for equiv- ariant continuous-time dynamical systems to satisfy reach-avoid specifications. The algorithm exploits dynamical symmetries to construct lean abstractions to avoid redundant computations during synthesis. Our proposed algorithm adds an- other layer of abstraction over the common grid-based discrete abstraction before solving the synthesis problem. It combines each set of grid cells that are at a similar relative position from the targets and nearby obstacles, defined by the symmetries, into a single abstract state. It uses this layer of abstraction to guide the order by which actions are explored during synthesis over the grid-based abstraction. We demonstrate the potential of our algorithm by synthesizing a reach-avoid controller for a 3-dimensional ship model with translation and rotation symmetries in the special Euclidean group SE(2).
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [617]
标题:  Aerial Lifting: Neural Urban Semantic and Building Instance Lifting from  Aerial Imagery
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11812
作者:  Yuqi Zhang,  Guanying Chen,  Jiaxing Chen,  Shuguang Cui
备注:  CVPR 2024: this https URL
Abstract:We present a neural radiance field method for urban-scale semantic and building-level instance segmentation from aerial images by lifting noisy 2D labels to 3D. This is a challenging problem due to two primary reasons. Firstly, objects in urban aerial images exhibit substantial variations in size, including buildings, cars, and roads, which pose a significant challenge for accurate 2D segmentation. Secondly, the 2D labels generated by existing segmentation methods suffer from the multi-view inconsistency problem, especially in the case of aerial images, where each image captures only a small portion of the entire scene. To overcome these limitations, we first introduce a scale-adaptive semantic label fusion strategy that enhances the segmentation of objects of varying sizes by combining labels predicted from different altitudes, harnessing the novel-view synthesis capabilities of NeRF. We then introduce a novel cross-view instance label grouping strategy based on the 3D scene representation to mitigate the multi-view inconsistency problem in the 2D instance labels. Furthermore, we exploit multi-view reconstructed depth priors to improve the geometric quality of the reconstructed radiance field, resulting in enhanced segmentation results. Experiments on multiple real-world urban-scale datasets demonstrate that our approach outperforms existing methods, highlighting its effectiveness.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [618]
标题:  A Simple 2-Approximation Algorithm For Minimum Manhattan Network Problem
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11811
作者:  Md. Musfiqur Rahman Sanim,  Safrunnesa Saira,  Fatin Faiaz Ahsan,  Rajon Bardhan,  S.M. Ferdous
备注:  ARSSS International Conference, Dhaka, Bangladesh
Abstract:Given a n points in two dimensional space, a Manhattan Network G is a network that connects all n points with either horizontal or vertical edges, with the property that for any two point in G should be connected by a Manhattan path and distance between this two points is equal to Manhattan Distance. The Minimum Manhattan Network problem is to find a Manhattan network with minimum network length, i.e., summation of all line segment in network should be minimize. In this paper, we proposed a 2-approximation algorithm with time complexity O(|E|lgN) where |E| is the number of edges and N is the number of nodes. Using randomly generated datasets, we compare our result with the optimal one.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [619]
标题:  Metaphor Understanding Challenge Dataset for LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11810
作者:  Xiaoyu Tong,  Rochelle Choenni,  Martha Lewis,  Ekaterina Shutova
备注:  
Abstract:Metaphors in natural language are a reflection of fundamental cognitive processes such as analogical reasoning and categorisation, and are deeply rooted in everyday communication. Metaphor understanding is therefore an essential task for large language models (LLMs). We release the Metaphor Understanding Challenge Dataset (MUNCH), designed to evaluate the metaphor understanding capabilities of LLMs. The dataset provides over 10k paraphrases for sentences containing metaphor use, as well as 1.5k instances containing inapt paraphrases. The inapt paraphrases were carefully selected to serve as control to determine whether the model indeed performs full metaphor interpretation or rather resorts to lexical similarity. All apt and inapt paraphrases were manually annotated. The metaphorical sentences cover natural metaphor uses across 4 genres (academic, news, fiction, and conversation), and they exhibit different levels of novelty. Experiments with LLaMA and GPT-3.5 demonstrate that MUNCH presents a challenging task for LLMs. The dataset is freely accessible at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [620]
标题:  Sensing-Enhanced Channel Estimation for Near-Field XL-MIMO Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11809
作者:  Shicong Liu,  Xianghao Yu,  Zhen Gao,  Jie Xu,  Derrick Wing Kwan Ng,  Shuguang Cui
备注:  14 pages, 9 figures
Abstract:Future sixth-generation (6G) systems are expected to leverage extremely large-scale multiple-input multiple-output (XL-MIMO) technology, which significantly expands the range of the near-field region. The spherical wavefront characteristics in the near field introduce additional degrees of freedom (DoFs), namely distance and angle, into the channel model, which leads to unique challenges in channel estimation (CE). In this paper, we propose a new sensing-enhanced uplink CE scheme for near-field XL-MIMO, which notably reduces the required quantity of baseband samples and the dictionary size. In particular, we first propose a sensing method that can be accomplished in a single time slot. It employs power sensors embedded within the antenna elements to measure the received power pattern rather than baseband samples. A time inversion algorithm is then proposed to precisely estimate the locations of users and scatterers, which offers a substantially lower computational complexity. Based on the estimated locations from sensing, a novel dictionary is then proposed by considering the eigen-problem based on the near-field transmission model, which facilitates efficient near-field CE with less baseband sampling and a more lightweight dictionary. Moreover, we derive the general form of the eigenvectors associated with the near-field channel matrix, revealing their noteworthy connection to the discrete prolate spheroidal sequence (DPSS). Simulation results unveil that the proposed time inversion algorithm achieves accurate localization with power measurements only, and remarkably outperforms various widely-adopted algorithms in terms of computational complexity. Furthermore, the proposed eigen-dictionary considerably improves the accuracy in CE with a compact dictionary size and a drastic reduction in baseband samples by up to 77%.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [621]
标题:  Dynamic Tuning Towards Parameter and Inference Efficiency for ViT  Adaptation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11808
作者:  Wangbo Zhao,  Jiasheng Tang,  Yizeng Han,  Yibing Song,  Kai Wang,  Gao Huang,  Fan Wang,  Yang You
备注:  
Abstract:Existing parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods have achieved significant success on vision transformers (ViTs) adaptation by improving parameter efficiency. However, the exploration of enhancing inference efficiency during adaptation remains underexplored. This limits the broader application of pre-trained ViT models, especially when the model is computationally extensive. In this paper, we propose Dynamic Tuning (DyT), a novel approach to improve both parameter and inference efficiency for ViT adaptation. Specifically, besides using the lightweight adapter modules, we propose a token dispatcher to distinguish informative tokens from less important ones, allowing the latter to dynamically skip the original block, thereby reducing the redundant computation during inference. Additionally, we explore multiple design variants to find the best practice of DyT. Finally, inspired by the mixture-of-experts (MoE) mechanism, we introduce an enhanced adapter to further boost the adaptation performance. We validate DyT across various tasks, including image/video recognition and semantic segmentation. For instance, DyT achieves comparable or even superior performance compared to existing PEFT methods while evoking only 71%-85% of their FLOPs on the VTAB-1K benchmark.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [622]
标题:  How Far Are We on the Decision-Making of LLMs? Evaluating LLMs' Gaming  Ability in Multi-Agent Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11807
作者:  Jen-tse Huang,  Eric John Li,  Man Ho Lam,  Tian Liang,  Wenxuan Wang,  Youliang Yuan,  Wenxiang Jiao,  Xing Wang,  Zhaopeng Tu,  Michael R. Lyu
备注:  16 pages, 15 figures, 9 tables. Working in Progress
Abstract:Decision-making, a complicated task requiring various types of abilities, presents an excellent framework for assessing Large Language Models (LLMs). Our research investigates LLMs' decision-making capabilities through the lens of a well-established field, Game Theory. We focus specifically on games that support the participation of more than two agents simultaneously. Subsequently, we introduce our framework, GAMA-Bench, including eight classical multi-agent games. We design a scoring scheme to assess a model's performance in these games quantitatively. Through GAMA-Bench, we investigate LLMs' robustness, generalizability, and enhancement strategies. Results reveal that while GPT-3.5 shows satisfying robustness, its generalizability is relatively limited. However, its performance can be improved through approaches such as Chain-of-Thought. Additionally, we conduct evaluations across various LLMs and find that GPT-4 outperforms other models on GAMA-Bench, achieving a score of 72.5. Moreover, the increasingly higher scores across the three iterations of GPT-3.5 (0613, 1106, 0125) demonstrate marked advancements in the model's intelligence with each update. The code and experimental results are made publicly available via this https URL.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [623]
标题:  Fluid Antenna for Mobile Edge Computing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11806
作者:  Yiping Zuo,  Jiajia Guo,  Biyun Sheng,  Chen Dai,  Fu Xiao,  Shi Jin
备注:  
Abstract:In the evolving environment of mobile edge computing (MEC), optimizing system performance to meet the growing demand for low-latency computing services is a top priority. Integrating fluidic antenna (FA) technology into MEC networks provides a new approach to address this challenge. This letter proposes an FA-enabled MEC scheme that aims to minimize the total system delay by leveraging the mobility of FA to enhance channel conditions and improve computational offloading efficiency. By establishing an optimization problem focusing on the joint optimization of computation offloading and antenna positioning, we introduce an alternating iterative algorithm based on the interior point method and particle swarm optimization (IPPSO). Numerical results demonstrate the advantages of our proposed scheme compared to traditional fixed antenna positions, showing significant improvements in transmission rates and reductions in delays. The proposed IPPSO algorithm exhibits robust convergence properties, further validating the effectiveness of our method.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [624]
标题:  LLM as a System Service on Mobile Devices
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11805
作者:  Wangsong Yin,  Mengwei Xu,  Yuanchun Li,  Xuanzhe Liu
备注:  Technical Report
Abstract:Being more powerful and intrusive into user-device interactions, LLMs are eager for on-device execution to better preserve user privacy. In this work, we propose a new paradigm of mobile AI: LLM as a system service on mobile devices (LLMaaS). Unlike traditional DNNs that execute in a stateless manner, such a system service is stateful: LLMs execution often needs to maintain persistent states (mainly KV cache) across multiple invocations. To minimize the LLM context switching overhead under tight device memory budget, this work presents LLMS, which decouples the memory management of app and LLM contexts with a key idea of fine-grained, chunk-wise, globally-optimized KV cache compression and swapping. By fully leveraging KV cache's unique characteristics, it proposes three novel techniques: (1) Tolerance-Aware Compression: it compresses chunks based on their measured accuracy tolerance to compression. (2) IO-Recompute Pipelined Loading: it introduces recompute to swapping-in for acceleration. (3) Chunk Lifecycle Management: it optimizes the memory activities of chunks with an ahead-of-time swapping-out and an LCTRU (Least Compression-Tolerable and Recently-Used) queue based eviction. In evaluations conducted on well-established traces and various edge devices, \sys reduces context switching latency by up to 2 orders of magnitude when compared to competitive baseline solutions.
Subjects: Operating Systems (cs.OS)

**编号**: [625]
标题:  Federated Modality-specific Encoders and Multimodal Anchors for  Personalized Brain Tumor Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11803
作者:  Qian Dai,  Dong Wei,  Hong Liu,  Jinghan Sun,  Liansheng Wang,  Yefeng Zheng
备注:  Accepted by AAAI 2024
Abstract:Most existing federated learning (FL) methods for medical image analysis only considered intramodal heterogeneity, limiting their applicability to multimodal imaging applications. In practice, it is not uncommon that some FL participants only possess a subset of the complete imaging modalities, posing inter-modal heterogeneity as a challenge to effectively training a global model on all participants' data. In addition, each participant would expect to obtain a personalized model tailored for its local data characteristics from the FL in such a scenario. In this work, we propose a new FL framework with federated modality-specific encoders and multimodal anchors (FedMEMA) to simultaneously address the two concurrent issues. Above all, FedMEMA employs an exclusive encoder for each modality to account for the inter-modal heterogeneity in the first place. In the meantime, while the encoders are shared by the participants, the decoders are personalized to meet individual needs. Specifically, a server with full-modal data employs a fusion decoder to aggregate and fuse representations from all modality-specific encoders, thus bridging the modalities to optimize the encoders via backpropagation reversely. Meanwhile, multiple anchors are extracted from the fused multimodal representations and distributed to the clients in addition to the encoder parameters. On the other end, the clients with incomplete modalities calibrate their missing-modal representations toward the global full-modal anchors via scaled dot-product cross-attention, making up the information loss due to absent modalities while adapting the representations of present ones. FedMEMA is validated on the BraTS 2020 benchmark for multimodal brain tumor segmentation. Results show that it outperforms various up-to-date methods for multimodal and personalized FL and that its novel designs are effective. Our code is available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [626]
标题:  Counting-Stars: A Simple, Efficient, and Reasonable Strategy for  Evaluating Long-Context Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11802
作者:  Mingyang Song,  Mao Zheng,  Xuan Luo
备注:  a technical report
Abstract:While recent research endeavors have concentrated on developing Large Language Models (LLMs) with robust long-context capabilities, due to the lack of appropriate evaluation strategies, relatively little is known about how well the long-context processing abilities and performance of leading LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT and KimiChat). To address this gap, we propose a simple, efficient, and reasonable strategy for evaluating long-context LLMs as a new benchmark, named Counting-Stars. The Counting-Stars is designed to require LLMs to fully understand and capture long dependencies in long contexts and be able to collect inter-dependency across multiple pieces of evidence spanning the entire context to finish the task. Based on the Counting-Stars, we conduct experiments to evaluate the two leading long-context LLMs, i.e., GPT-4 Turbo and Kimi Chat. The experimental results indicate that GPT-4 Turbo and Kimi Chat achieve significant performance in the long context from 4K to 128K. We further present two intriguing analyses regarding the behavior of LLMs processing long context.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [627]
标题:  Is It Really You Who Forgot the Password? When Account Recovery Meets  Risk-Based Authentication
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11798
作者:  Andre Büttner,  Andreas Thue Pedersen,  Stephan Wiefling,  Nils Gruschka,  Luigi Lo Iacono
备注:  
Abstract:Risk-based authentication (RBA) is used in online services to protect user accounts from unauthorized takeover. RBA commonly uses contextual features that indicate a suspicious login attempt when the characteristic attributes of the login context deviate from known and thus expected values. Previous research on RBA and anomaly detection in authentication has mainly focused on the login process. However, recent attacks have revealed vulnerabilities in other parts of the authentication process, specifically in the account recovery function. Consequently, to ensure comprehensive authentication security, the use of anomaly detection in the context of account recovery must also be investigated. This paper presents the first study to investigate risk-based account recovery (RBAR) in the wild. We analyzed the adoption of RBAR by five prominent online services (that are known to use RBA). Our findings confirm the use of RBAR at Google, LinkedIn, and Amazon. Furthermore, we provide insights into the different RBAR mechanisms of these services and explore the impact of multi-factor authentication on them. Based on our findings, we create a first maturity model for RBAR challenges. The goal of our work is to help developers, administrators, and policy-makers gain an initial understanding of RBAR and to encourage further research in this direction.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [628]
标题:  OpenOcc: Open Vocabulary 3D Scene Reconstruction via Occupancy  Representation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11796
作者:  Haochen Jiang,  Yueming Xu,  Yihan Zeng,  Hang Xu,  Wei Zhang,  Jianfeng Feng,  Li Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:3D reconstruction has been widely used in autonomous navigation fields of mobile robotics. However, the former research can only provide the basic geometry structure without the capability of open-world scene understanding, limiting advanced tasks like human interaction and visual navigation. Moreover, traditional 3D scene understanding approaches rely on expensive labeled 3D datasets to train a model for a single task with supervision. Thus, geometric reconstruction with zero-shot scene understanding i.e. Open vocabulary 3D Understanding and Reconstruction, is crucial for the future development of mobile robots. In this paper, we propose OpenOcc, a novel framework unifying the 3D scene reconstruction and open vocabulary understanding with neural radiance fields. We model the geometric structure of the scene with occupancy representation and distill the pre-trained open vocabulary model into a 3D language field via volume rendering for zero-shot inference. Furthermore, a novel semantic-aware confidence propagation (SCP) method has been proposed to relieve the issue of language field representation degeneracy caused by inconsistent measurements in distilled features. Experimental results show that our approach achieves competitive performance in 3D scene understanding tasks, especially for small and long-tail objects.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [629]
标题:  Low-Cost Privacy-Aware Decentralized Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11795
作者:  Sayan Biswas,  Davide Frey,  Romaric Gaudel,  Anne-Marie Kermarrec,  Dimitri Lerévérend,  Rafael Pires,  Rishi Sharma,  François Taïani
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces ZIP-DL, a novel privacy-aware decentralized learning (DL) algorithm that relies on adding correlated noise to each model update during the model training process. This technique ensures that the added noise almost neutralizes itself during the aggregation process due to its correlation, thus minimizing the impact on model accuracy. In addition, ZIP-DL does not require multiple communication rounds for noise cancellation, addressing the common trade-off between privacy protection and communication overhead. We provide theoretical guarantees for both convergence speed and privacy guarantees, thereby making ZIP-DL applicable to practical scenarios. Our extensive experimental study shows that ZIP-DL achieves the best trade-off between vulnerability and accuracy. In particular, ZIP-DL (i) reduces the effectiveness of a linkability attack by up to 52 points compared to baseline DL, and (ii) achieves up to 37 more accuracy points for the same vulnerability under membership inference attacks against a privacy-preserving competitor
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [630]
标题:  Reasoning Abilities of Large Language Models: In-Depth Analysis on the  Abstraction and Reasoning Corpus
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11793
作者:  Seungpil Lee,  Woochang Sim,  Donghyeon Shin,  Sanha Hwang,  Wongyu Seo,  Jiwon Park,  Seokki Lee,  Sejin Kim,  Sundong Kim
备注:  25 pages
Abstract:The existing methods for evaluating the inference abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) have been results-centric, making it difficult to assess the inference process. We introduce a new approach using the Abstract and Reasoning Corpus (ARC) dataset to evaluate the inference and contextual understanding abilities of large language models in a process-centric manner. ARC demands rigorous logical structures for problem-solving, making it a benchmark that facilitates the comparison of model inference abilities with humans. Experimental results confirm that while large language models possess weak inference abilities, they still lag in terms of logical coherence, compositionality, and productivity. Our experiments highlight the reasoning capabilities of LLMs, proposing development paths for achieving human-level reasoning.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC)

**编号**: [631]
标题:  SETA: Semantic-Aware Token Augmentation for Domain Generalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11792
作者:  Jintao Guo,  Lei Qi,  Yinghuan Shi,  Yang Gao
备注:  13 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:Domain generalization (DG) aims to enhance the model robustness against domain shifts without accessing target domains. A prevalent category of methods for DG is data augmentation, which focuses on generating virtual samples to simulate domain shifts. However, existing augmentation techniques in DG are mainly tailored for convolutional neural networks (CNNs), with limited exploration in token-based architectures, i.e., vision transformer (ViT) and multi-layer perceptrons (MLP) models. In this paper, we study the impact of prior CNN-based augmentation methods on token-based models, revealing their performance is suboptimal due to the lack of incentivizing the model to learn holistic shape information. To tackle the issue, we propose the SEmantic-aware Token Augmentation (SETA) method. SETA transforms token features by perturbing local edge cues while preserving global shape features, thereby enhancing the model learning of shape information. To further enhance the generalization ability of the model, we introduce two stylized variants of our method combined with two state-of-the-art style augmentation methods in DG. We provide a theoretical insight into our method, demonstrating its effectiveness in reducing the generalization risk bound. Comprehensive experiments on five benchmarks prove that our method achieves SOTA performances across various ViT and MLP architectures. Our code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [632]
标题:  Deep Medial Voxels: Learned Medial Axis Approximations for Anatomical  Shape Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11790
作者:  Antonio Pepe,  Richard Schussnig,  Jianning Li,  Christina Gsaxner,  Dieter Schmalstieg,  Jan Egger
备注:  10 pages
Abstract:Shape reconstruction from imaging volumes is a recurring need in medical image analysis. Common workflows start with a segmentation step, followed by careful post-processing and,finally, ad hoc meshing algorithms. As this sequence can be timeconsuming, neural networks are trained to reconstruct shapes through template deformation. These networks deliver state-ofthe-art results without manual intervention, but, so far, they have primarily been evaluated on anatomical shapes with little topological variety between individuals. In contrast, other works favor learning implicit shape models, which have multiple benefits for meshing and visualization. Our work follows this direction by introducing deep medial voxels, a semi-implicit representation that faithfully approximates the topological skeleton from imaging volumes and eventually leads to shape reconstruction via convolution surfaces. Our reconstruction technique shows potential for both visualization and computer simulations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [633]
标题:  EMIE-MAP: Large-Scale Road Surface Reconstruction Based on Explicit Mesh  and Implicit Encoding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11789
作者:  Wenhua Wu,  Qi Wang,  Guangming Wang,  Junping Wang,  Tiankun Zhao,  Yang Liu,  Dongchao Gao,  Zhe Liu,  Hesheng Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Road surface reconstruction plays a vital role in autonomous driving systems, enabling road lane perception and high-precision mapping. Recently, neural implicit encoding has achieved remarkable results in scene representation, particularly in the realistic rendering of scene textures. However, it faces challenges in directly representing geometric information for large-scale scenes. To address this, we propose EMIE-MAP, a novel method for large-scale road surface reconstruction based on explicit mesh and implicit encoding. The road geometry is represented using explicit mesh, where each vertex stores implicit encoding representing the color and semantic information. To overcome the difficulty in optimizing road elevation, we introduce a trajectory-based elevation initialization and an elevation residual learning method based on Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP). Additionally, by employing implicit encoding and multi-camera color MLPs decoding, we achieve separate modeling of scene physical properties and camera characteristics, allowing surround-view reconstruction compatible with different camera models. Our method achieves remarkable road surface reconstruction performance in a variety of real-world challenging scenarios.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [634]
标题:  Locomotion Generation for a Rat Robot based on Environmental Changes via  Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11788
作者:  Xinhui Shan,  Yuhong Huang,  Zhenshan Bing,  Zitao Zhang,  Xiangtong Yao,  Kai Huang,  Alois Knoll
备注:  
Abstract:This research focuses on developing reinforcement learning approaches for the locomotion generation of small-size quadruped robots. The rat robot NeRmo is employed as the experimental platform. Due to the constrained volume, small-size quadruped robots typically possess fewer and weaker sensors, resulting in difficulty in accurately perceiving and responding to environmental changes. In this context, insufficient and imprecise feedback data from sensors makes it difficult to generate adaptive locomotion based on reinforcement learning. To overcome these challenges, this paper proposes a novel reinforcement learning approach that focuses on extracting effective perceptual information to enhance the environmental adaptability of small-size quadruped robots. According to the frequency of a robot's gait stride, key information of sensor data is analyzed utilizing sinusoidal functions derived from Fourier transform results. Additionally, a multifunctional reward mechanism is proposed to generate adaptive locomotion in different tasks. Extensive simulations are conducted to assess the effectiveness of the proposed reinforcement learning approach in generating rat robot locomotion in various environments. The experiment results illustrate the capability of the proposed approach to maintain stable locomotion of a rat robot across different terrains, including ramps, stairs, and spiral stairs.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [635]
标题:  On the Convergence of A Data-Driven Regularized Stochastic Gradient  Descent for Nonlinear Ill-Posed Problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11787
作者:  Zehui Zhou
备注:  41 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:Stochastic gradient descent (SGD) is a promising method for solving large-scale inverse problems, due to its excellent scalability with respect to data size. In this work, we analyze a new data-driven regularized stochastic gradient descent for the efficient numerical solution of a class of nonlinear ill-posed inverse problems in infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces. At each step of the iteration, the method randomly selects one equation from the nonlinear system combined with a corresponding equation from the learned system based on training data to obtain a stochastic estimate of the gradient and then performs a descent step with the estimated gradient. We prove the regularizing property of this method under the tangential cone condition and a priori parameter choice and then derive the convergence rates under the additional source condition and range invariance conditions. Several numerical experiments are provided to complement the analysis.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [636]
标题:  Construction of Hyper-Relational Knowledge Graphs Using Pre-Trained  Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11786
作者:  Preetha Datta,  Fedor Vitiugin,  Anastasiia Chizhikova,  Nitin Sawhney
备注:  5 pages + references
Abstract:Extracting hyper-relations is crucial for constructing comprehensive knowledge graphs, but there are limited supervised methods available for this task. To address this gap, we introduce a zero-shot prompt-based method using OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model for extracting hyper-relational knowledge from text. Comparing our model with a baseline, we achieved promising results, with a recall of 0.77. Although our precision is currently lower, a detailed analysis of the model outputs has uncovered potential pathways for future research in this area.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [637]
标题:  ForzaETH Race Stack - Scaled Autonomous Head-to-Head Racing on Fully  Commercial off-the-Shelf Hardware
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11784
作者:  Nicolas Baumann,  Edoardo Ghignone,  Jonas Kühne,  Niklas Bastuck,  Jonathan Becker,  Nadine Imholz,  Tobias Kränzlin,  Tian Yi Lim,  Michael Lötscher,  Luca Schwarzenbach,  Luca Tognoni,  Christian Vogt,  Andrea Carron,  Michele Magno
备注:  
Abstract:Autonomous racing in robotics combines high-speed dynamics with the necessity for reliability and real-time decision-making. While such racing pushes software and hardware to their limits, many existing full-system solutions necessitate complex, custom hardware and software, and usually focus on Time-Trials rather than full unrestricted Head-to-Head racing, due to financial and safety constraints. This limits their reproducibility, making advancements and replication feasible mostly for well-resourced laboratories with comprehensive expertise in mechanical, electrical, and robotics fields. Researchers interested in the autonomy domain but with only partial experience in one of these fields, need to spend significant time with familiarization and integration. The ForzaETH Race Stack addresses this gap by providing an autonomous racing software platform designed for F1TENTH, a 1:10 scaled Head-to-Head autonomous racing competition, which simplifies replication by using commercial off-the-shelf hardware. This approach enhances the competitive aspect of autonomous racing and provides an accessible platform for research and development in the field. The ForzaETH Race Stack is designed with modularity and operational ease of use in mind, allowing customization and adaptability to various environmental conditions, such as track friction and layout. Capable of handling both Time-Trials and Head-to-Head racing, the stack has demonstrated its effectiveness, robustness, and adaptability in the field by winning the official F1TENTH international competition multiple times.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Software Engineering (cs.SE); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [638]
标题:  A tutorial on learning from preferences and choices with Gaussian  Processes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11782
作者:  Alessio Benavoli,  Dario Azzimonti
备注:  
Abstract:Preference modelling lies at the intersection of economics, decision theory, machine learning and statistics. By understanding individuals' preferences and how they make choices, we can build products that closely match their expectations, paving the way for more efficient and personalised applications across a wide range of domains. The objective of this tutorial is to present a cohesive and comprehensive framework for preference learning with Gaussian Processes (GPs), demonstrating how to seamlessly incorporate rationality principles (from economics and decision theory) into the learning process. By suitably tailoring the likelihood function, this framework enables the construction of preference learning models that encompass random utility models, limits of discernment, and scenarios with multiple conflicting utilities for both object- and label-preference. This tutorial builds upon established research while simultaneously introducing some novel GP-based models to address specific gaps in the existing literature.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [639]
标题:  Infinite-ID: Identity-preserved Personalization via ID-semantics  Decoupling Paradigm
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11781
作者:  Yi Wu,  Ziqiang Li,  Heliang Zheng,  Chaoyue Wang,  Bin Li
备注:  
Abstract:Drawing on recent advancements in diffusion models for text-to-image generation, identity-preserved personalization has made significant progress in accurately capturing specific identities with just a single reference image. However, existing methods primarily integrate reference images within the text embedding space, leading to a complex entanglement of image and text information, which poses challenges for preserving both identity fidelity and semantic consistency. To tackle this challenge, we propose Infinite-ID, an ID-semantics decoupling paradigm for identity-preserved personalization. Specifically, we introduce identity-enhanced training, incorporating an additional image cross-attention module to capture sufficient ID information while deactivating the original text cross-attention module of the diffusion model. This ensures that the image stream faithfully represents the identity provided by the reference image while mitigating interference from textual input. Additionally, we introduce a feature interaction mechanism that combines a mixed attention module with an AdaIN-mean operation to seamlessly merge the two streams. This mechanism not only enhances the fidelity of identity and semantic consistency but also enables convenient control over the styles of the generated images. Extensive experimental results on both raw photo generation and style image generation demonstrate the superior performance of our proposed method.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [640]
标题:  Prompt-Singer: Controllable Singing-Voice-Synthesis with Natural  Language Prompt
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11780
作者:  Yongqi Wang,  Ruofan Hu,  Rongjie Huang,  Zhiqing Hong,  Ruiqi Li,  Wenrui Liu,  Fuming You,  Tao Jin,  Zhou Zhao
备注:  Accepted by NAACL 2024 (main conference)
Abstract:Recent singing-voice-synthesis (SVS) methods have achieved remarkable audio quality and naturalness, yet they lack the capability to control the style attributes of the synthesized singing explicitly. We propose Prompt-Singer, the first SVS method that enables attribute controlling on singer gender, vocal range and volume with natural language. We adopt a model architecture based on a decoder-only transformer with a multi-scale hierarchy, and design a range-melody decoupled pitch representation that enables text-conditioned vocal range control while keeping melodic accuracy. Furthermore, we explore various experiment settings, including different types of text representations, text encoder fine-tuning, and introducing speech data to alleviate data scarcity, aiming to facilitate further research. Experiments show that our model achieves favorable controlling ability and audio quality. Audio samples are available at this http URL .
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [641]
标题:  Home Spaces and Invariants to Analyze Parameterized Petri Nets
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11779
作者:  Gerard Memmi
备注:  20 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2306.07623
Abstract:This article focuses on comparing the notions of home spaces and invariants, in Transition Systems and more particularly, in Petri Nets as well as a variety of derived Petri Nets. After recalling basic notions of Petri Nets and semiflows, we then discuss important characteristics of finite generating sets for F, the set of all semiflows with integer coordinates of a given Petri Net. Then, we particularly focus on F+ the set of semiflows with non-negative coordinates. Minimality of semiflows and minimality of supports are critical to develop effective analysis of invariants and behavioral properties of Petri Nets such as boundedness or even liveness. We recall known decomposition theorems considering N, Q+, or Q. The result over N is being improved into a necessary and sufficient condition. In addition, we present general new results about the topology and the behavioral properties of a Petri Net, illustrating the importance of considering semiflows with non-negative coordinates. Then, we regroup a number of results around the notion of home space and home state applied to transition systems. Home spaces and semiflows are used to efficiently support the analysis of behavioral properties. In this regard, we present a methodology to analyze a Petri Nets by successive refinement of home spaces directly deduced from semiflows and apply it to analyze a parameterized example drawn from the telecommunication industry underlining the efficiency brought by using minimal semiflows of minimal supports as well as the new results on the topology of the model. This methodology is better articulated than in previous papers, and brings us closer to an automated analysis.
Subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)

**编号**: [642]
标题:  Towards the Development of a Real-Time Deepfake Audio Detection System  in Communication Platforms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11778
作者:  Jonat John Mathew,  Rakin Ahsan,  Sae Furukawa,  Jagdish Gautham Krishna Kumar,  Huzaifa Pallan,  Agamjeet Singh Padda,  Sara Adamski,  Madhu Reddiboina,  Arjun Pankajakshan
备注:  
Abstract:Deepfake audio poses a rising threat in communication platforms, necessitating real-time detection for audio stream integrity. Unlike traditional non-real-time approaches, this study assesses the viability of employing static deepfake audio detection models in real-time communication platforms. An executable software is developed for cross-platform compatibility, enabling real-time execution. Two deepfake audio detection models based on Resnet and LCNN architectures are implemented using the ASVspoof 2019 dataset, achieving benchmark performances compared to ASVspoof 2019 challenge baselines. The study proposes strategies and frameworks for enhancing these models, paving the way for real-time deepfake audio detection in communication platforms. This work contributes to the advancement of audio stream security, ensuring robust detection capabilities in dynamic, real-time communication scenarios.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [643]
标题:  DVN-SLAM: Dynamic Visual Neural SLAM Based on Local-Global Encoding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11776
作者:  Wenhua Wu,  Guangming Wang,  Ting Deng,  Sebastian Aegidius,  Stuart Shanks,  Valerio Modugno,  Dimitrios Kanoulas,  Hesheng Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Recent research on Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) based on implicit representation has shown promising results in indoor environments. However, there are still some challenges: the limited scene representation capability of implicit encodings, the uncertainty in the rendering process from implicit representations, and the disruption of consistency by dynamic objects. To address these challenges, we propose a real-time dynamic visual SLAM system based on local-global fusion neural implicit representation, named DVN-SLAM. To improve the scene representation capability, we introduce a local-global fusion neural implicit representation that enables the construction of an implicit map while considering both global structure and local details. To tackle uncertainties arising from the rendering process, we design an information concentration loss for optimization, aiming to concentrate scene information on object surfaces. The proposed DVN-SLAM achieves competitive performance in localization and mapping across multiple datasets. More importantly, DVN-SLAM demonstrates robustness in dynamic scenes, a trait that sets it apart from other NeRF-based methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [644]
标题:  Minimal Ternary Linear Codes from Vectorial Functions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11775
作者:  Yanjun Li,  Haibin Kan,  Fangfang Liu,  Jie Peng,  Lijing Zheng,  Zepeng Zhuo
备注:  
Abstract:The study on minimal linear codes has received great attention due to their significant applications in secret sharing schemes and secure two-party computation. Until now, numerous minimal linear codes have been discovered. However, to the best of our knowledge, no infinite family of minimal ternary linear codes was found from vectorial functions. In this paper, we present a necessary and sufficient condition for a large class of ternary linear codes from vectorial functions such that those codes are minimal. Based on that, we construct several minimal ternary linear codes with three-weight from vectorial regular plateaued functions, and determine their weight distributions. Moreover, we also give a necessary and sufficient condition for a large family of ternary linear codes from vectorial functions such that the codes are minimal and violate the AB condition simultaneously. According to this characterization, we find several minimal ternary linear codes violating the AB condition. Notably, our results show that our method can be applied to solve a problem on minimal linear codes proposed by Li et al.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [645]
标题:  S-JEPA: towards seamless cross-dataset transfer through dynamic spatial  attention
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11772
作者:  Pierre Guetschel,  Thomas Moreau,  Michael Tangermann
备注:  Submitted to 9th Graz BCI Conference 2024
Abstract:Motivated by the challenge of seamless cross-dataset transfer in EEG signal processing, this article presents an exploratory study on the use of Joint Embedding Predictive Architectures (JEPAs). In recent years, self-supervised learning has emerged as a promising approach for transfer learning in various domains. However, its application to EEG signals remains largely unexplored. In this article, we introduce Signal-JEPA for representing EEG recordings which includes a novel domain-specific spatial block masking strategy and three novel architectures for downstream classification. The study is conducted on a 54~subjects dataset and the downstream performance of the models is evaluated on three different BCI paradigms: motor imagery, ERP and SSVEP. Our study provides preliminary evidence for the potential of JEPAs in EEG signal encoding. Notably, our results highlight the importance of spatial filtering for accurate downstream classification and reveal an influence of the length of the pre-training examples but not of the mask size on the downstream performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [646]
标题:  Modality-Agnostic fMRI Decoding of Vision and Language
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11771
作者:  Mitja Nikolaus,  Milad Mozafari,  Nicholas Asher,  Leila Reddy,  Rufin VanRullen
备注:  To appear at ICLR 2024 workshop on Representational Alignment (Re-Align)
Abstract:Previous studies have shown that it is possible to map brain activation data of subjects viewing images onto the feature representation space of not only vision models (modality-specific decoding) but also language models (cross-modal decoding). In this work, we introduce and use a new large-scale fMRI dataset (~8,500 trials per subject) of people watching both images and text descriptions of such images. This novel dataset enables the development of modality-agnostic decoders: a single decoder that can predict which stimulus a subject is seeing, irrespective of the modality (image or text) in which the stimulus is presented. We train and evaluate such decoders to map brain signals onto stimulus representations from a large range of publicly available vision, language and multimodal (vision+language) models. Our findings reveal that (1) modality-agnostic decoders perform as well as (and sometimes even better than) modality-specific decoders (2) modality-agnostic decoders mapping brain data onto representations from unimodal models perform as well as decoders relying on multimodal representations (3) while language and low-level visual (occipital) brain regions are best at decoding text and image stimuli, respectively, high-level visual (temporal) regions perform well on both stimulus types.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [647]
标题:  EmpowerAbility: A portal for employment & scholarships for  differently-abled
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11769
作者:  Himanshu Raj,  Shubham Kumar,  Dr. J Kalaivani
备注:  
Abstract:The internet has become a vital resource for job seekers in today's technologically advanced world, particularly for those with impairments. They mainly rely on internet resources to find jobs that fit their particular requirements and skill set. Though some disabled candidates receive prompt responses and job offers, others find it difficult to traverse the intricate world of job portals, the efficacy of this process frequently varies. This discrepancy results from a typical error: a failure to completely comprehend and utilize the accessibility features and functions that can significantly expedite and simplify the job search process for people with impairments.This project is a job and scholarship portal that empowers individuals with diverse abilities. Through inspiring success stories, user-centric features, and practical opportunities, it fosters resilience and inclusivity while reshaping narratives. This platform's dual-pronged strategy instills pride and offers real-world solutions, making a lasting impact on the lives it touches.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [648]
标题:  Entrywise tensor-train approximation of large tensors via random  embeddings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11768
作者:  Stanislav Budzinskiy
备注:  
Abstract:The theory of low-rank tensor-train approximation is well-understood when the approximation error is measured in the Frobenius norm. The entrywise maximum norm is equally important but is significantly weaker for large tensors, making the estimates obtained via the Frobenius norm and norm equivalence pessimistic or even meaningless. In this article, we derive a new, direct estimate of the entrywise approximation error that is applicable in such cases. Our argument is based on random embeddings, the tensor-structured Hanson--Wright inequality, and the core coherences of a tensor. The theoretical results are accompanied with numerical experiments: we compute low-rank tensor-train approximations in the maximum norm for two classes of tensors using the method of alternating projections.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Probability (math.PR)

**编号**: [649]
标题:  Binary Codes for Correcting Two Edits
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11766
作者:  Yubo Sun,  Gennian Ge
备注:  Submitted to IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory on Sep. 2023
Abstract:An edit refers to a single insertion, deletion, or substitution. This paper aims to construct binary codes that can correct two edits. To do this, a necessary and sufficient condition for a code to be two-edit correctable is provided, showing that a code is a two-edit correcting code if and only if it can correct two deletions, up to two substitutions, and one deletion and up to one substitution, separately. This criterion allows for the construction of two-edit correcting codes leveraging these three types of error correcting codes. In the field of constructing codes for correcting two deletions, we modify the construction presented by Guruswami and Håstad and give an alternative proof. Moreover, our two-deletion correcting codes can also correct up to two substitutions after making a slight modification. In the field of constructing codes for correcting one deletion and up to one substitution, we present a construction with $(4+o(1)) \log n$ redundant bits, which outperforms the best previously known results $(6+o(1)) \log n$. Leveraging these codes, we obtain a construction of two-edit correcting codes with $(6+o(1)) \log n$ redundant bits, which outperforms the best previously known results $(8+o(1)) \log n$. Moreover, we also consider the list-decoding problem under the two-edit channel and construct a two-edit list-decodable code with a list size of two employing $(4+o(1)) \log n$ redundant bits.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [650]
标题:  RIS-aided Single-frequency 3D Imaging by Exploiting Multi-view Image  Correlations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11764
作者:  Yixuan Huang,  Jie Yang,  Chao-Kai Wen,  Shi Jin
备注:  16 pages, 12 figures, accepted by IEEE Transactions on Communications
Abstract:Retrieving range information in three-dimensional (3D) radio imaging is particularly challenging due to the limited communication bandwidth and pilot resources. To address this issue, we consider a reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS)-aided uplink communication scenario, generating multiple measurements through RIS phase adjustment. This study successfully realizes 3D single-frequency imaging by exploiting the near-field multi-view image correlations deduced from user mobility. We first highlight the significance of considering anisotropy in multi-view image formation by investigating radar cross-section properties and diffraction resolution limits. We then propose a novel model for joint multi-view 3D imaging that incorporates occlusion effects and anisotropic scattering. These factors lead to slow image support variation and smooth coefficient evolution, which are mathematically modeled as Markov processes. Based on this model, we employ the Expectation Maximization-Turbo-Generalized Approximate Message Passing algorithm for joint multi-view single-frequency 3D imaging with limited measurements. Simulation results reveal the superiority of joint multi-view imaging in terms of enhanced imaging ranges, accuracies, and anisotropy characterization compared to single-view imaging. Combining adjacent observations for joint multi-view imaging enables a reduction in the measurement overhead by 80%.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [651]
标题:  Full-Duplex MU-MIMO Systems with Coarse Quantization: How Many Bits Do  We Need?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11762
作者:  Seunghyeong Yoo,  Seokjun Park,  Mintaek Oh,  Namyoon Lee,  Jinseok Choi
备注:  
Abstract:This paper investigates full-duplex (FD) multi-user multiple-input multiple-output (MU-MIMO) system design with coarse quantization. We first analyze the impact of self-interference (SI) on quantization in FD single-input single-output systems. The analysis elucidates that the minimum required number of analog-to-digital converter (ADC) bits is logarithmically proportional to the ratio of total received power to the received power of desired signals. Motivated by this, we design a FD MIMO beamforming method that effectively manages the SI. Dividing a spectral efficiency maximization beamforming problem into two sub-problems for alternating optimization, we address the first by optimizing the precoder: obtaining a generalized eigenvalue problem from the first-order optimality condition, where the principal eigenvector is the optimal stationary solution, and adopting a power iteration method to identify this eigenvector. Subsequently, a quantization-aware minimum mean square error combiner is computed for the derived precoder. Through numerical studies, we observe that the proposed beamformer reduces the minimum required number of ADC bits for achieving higher spectral efficiency than that of half-duplex (HD) systems, compared to FD benchmarks. The overall analysis shows that, unlike with quantized HD systems, more than 6 bits are required for the ADC to fully realize the potential of the quantized FD system.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [652]
标题:  BEVCar: Camera-Radar Fusion for BEV Map and Object Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11761
作者:  Jonas Schramm,  Niclas Vödisch,  Kürsat Petek,  B Ravi Kiran,  Senthil Yogamani,  Wolfram Burgard,  Abhinav Valada
备注:  
Abstract:Semantic scene segmentation from a bird's-eye-view (BEV) perspective plays a crucial role in facilitating planning and decision-making for mobile robots. Although recent vision-only methods have demonstrated notable advancements in performance, they often struggle under adverse illumination conditions such as rain or nighttime. While active sensors offer a solution to this challenge, the prohibitively high cost of LiDARs remains a limiting factor. Fusing camera data with automotive radars poses a more inexpensive alternative but has received less attention in prior research. In this work, we aim to advance this promising avenue by introducing BEVCar, a novel approach for joint BEV object and map segmentation. The core novelty of our approach lies in first learning a point-based encoding of raw radar data, which is then leveraged to efficiently initialize the lifting of image features into the BEV space. We perform extensive experiments on the nuScenes dataset and demonstrate that BEVCar outperforms the current state of the art. Moreover, we show that incorporating radar information significantly enhances robustness in challenging environmental conditions and improves segmentation performance for distant objects. To foster future research, we provide the weather split of the nuScenes dataset used in our experiments, along with our code and trained models at this http URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [653]
标题:  Why E.T. Can't Phone Home: A Global View on IP-based Geoblocking at  VoWiFi
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11759
作者:  Gabriel Karl Gegenhuber,  Philipp Frenzel,  Edgar Weippl
备注:  
Abstract:In current cellular network generations (4G, 5G) the IMS (IP Multimedia Subsystem) plays an integral role in terminating voice calls and short messages. Many operators use VoWiFi (Voice over Wi-Fi, also Wi-Fi calling) as an alternative network access technology to complement their cellular coverage in areas where no radio signal is available (e.g., rural territories or shielded buildings). In a mobile world where customers regularly traverse national borders, this can be used to avoid expensive international roaming fees while journeying overseas, since VoWiFi calls are usually invoiced at domestic rates. To not lose this revenue stream, some operators block access to the IMS for customers staying abroad. This work evaluates the current deployment status of VoWiFi among worldwide operators and analyzes existing geoblocking measures on the IP layer. We show that a substantial share (IPv4: 14.6%, IPv6: 65.2%) of operators implement geoblocking at the DNS- or VoWiFi protocol level, and highlight severe drawbacks in terms of emergency calling service availability.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [654]
标题:  Demystifying the DAO Governance Process
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11758
作者:  Junjie Ma,  Muhui Jiang,  Jinan Jiang,  Xiapu Luo,  Yufeng Hu,  Yajin Zhou,  Qi Wang,  Fengwei Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) becomes a popular governance solution for decentralized applications (dApps) to achieve decentralized governance. In the DAO, no single entity can arbitrarily control the dApps without approval from the majority of members. However, despite its advantages, DAO has also been targeted by several attacks, leading to the loss of millions of dollars. In this paper, we first provided an overview of the DAO governance process within the blockchain. Next, we identified the issues within three components of governance process: Governance Contract, Documentation, and Proposal. Each of these components is vulnerable to issues that could potentially result in substantial financial losses. Then we developed automated methods to detected above issues. To investigate the issues within the existing DAO ecosystem, we constructed a state-of-the-art dataset that includes 16,427 DAOs, 183 documentation, and 122,307 proposals across 9 different blockchains. Our analysis reveals that a majority of DAO developers and members have not given sufficient attention to these issues, especially in the area of proposal. The result shows that over 60% of the examined proposals fail to provide a consistent description and code for their members, highlighting a significant gap in ensuring transparency within the DAO governance process. For a better DAO governance ecosystem, DAO developers and members can utilize the methods to identify and address issues within governance process.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [655]
标题:  Efficient Feature Extraction and Late Fusion Strategy for Audiovisual  Emotional Mimicry Intensity Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11757
作者:  Jun Yu,  Wangyuan Zhu,  Jichao Zhu
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present the solution to the Emotional Mimicry Intensity (EMI) Estimation challenge, which is part of 6th Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-wild (ABAW) Competition.The EMI Estimation challenge task aims to evaluate the emotional intensity of seed videos by assessing them from a set of predefined emotion categories (i.e., "Admiration," "Amusement," "Determination," "Empathic Pain," "Excitement," and "Joy").
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [656]
标题:  Just Undo It: Exploring Undo Mechanics in Multi-User Virtual Reality
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11756
作者:  Julian Rasch,  Florian Perzl,  Yannick Weiss,  Florian Müller
备注:  To appear in Proceedings of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '24), May 11-16, 2024, Honolulu, HI, USA
Abstract:With the proliferation of VR and a metaverse on the horizon, many multi-user activities are migrating to the VR world, calling for effective collaboration support. As one key feature, traditional collaborative systems provide users with undo mechanics to reverse errors and other unwanted changes. While undo has been extensively researched in this domain and is now considered industry standard, it is strikingly absent for VR systems in research and industry. This work addresses this research gap by exploring different undo techniques for basic object manipulation in different collaboration modes in VR. We conducted a study involving 32 participants organized in teams of two. Here, we studied users' performance and preferences in a tower stacking task, varying the available undo techniques and their mode of collaboration. The results suggest that users desire and use undo in VR and that the choice of the undo technique impacts users' performance and social connection.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [657]
标题:  Meta-Prompting for Automating Zero-shot Visual Recognition with LLMs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11755
作者:  M. Jehanzeb Mirza,  Leonid Karlinsky,  Wei Lin,  Sivan Doveh,  Jakub Micorek,  Mateusz Kozinski,  Hilde Kuhene,  Horst Possegger
备注:  Project Page (Code and Data): this https URL
Abstract:Prompt ensembling of Large Language Model (LLM) generated category-specific prompts has emerged as an effective method to enhance zero-shot recognition ability of Vision-Language Models (VLMs). To obtain these category-specific prompts, the present methods rely on hand-crafting the prompts to the LLMs for generating VLM prompts for the downstream tasks. However, this requires manually composing these task-specific prompts and still, they might not cover the diverse set of visual concepts and task-specific styles associated with the categories of interest. To effectively take humans out of the loop and completely automate the prompt generation process for zero-shot recognition, we propose Meta-Prompting for Visual Recognition (MPVR). Taking as input only minimal information about the target task, in the form of its short natural language description, and a list of associated class labels, MPVR automatically produces a diverse set of category-specific prompts resulting in a strong zero-shot classifier. MPVR generalizes effectively across various popular zero-shot image recognition benchmarks belonging to widely different domains when tested with multiple LLMs and VLMs. For example, MPVR obtains a zero-shot recognition improvement over CLIP by up to 19.8% and 18.2% (5.0% and 4.5% on average over 20 datasets) leveraging GPT and Mixtral LLMs, respectively
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [658]
标题:  Bounds and Constructions of $\ell$-Read Codes under the Hamming Metric
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11754
作者:  Yubo Sun,  Gennian Ge
备注:  
Abstract:Nanopore sequencing is a promising technology for DNA sequencing. In this paper, we investigate a specific model of the nanopore sequencer, which takes a $q$-ary sequence of length $n$ as input and outputs a vector of length $n+\ell-1$ referred to as an $\ell$-read vector where the $i$-th entry is a multi-set composed of the $\ell$ elements located between the $(i-\ell+1)$-th and $i$-th positions of the input sequence. Considering the presence of substitution errors in the output vector, we study $\ell$-read codes under the Hamming metric. An $\ell$-read $(n,d)_q$-code is a set of $q$-ary sequences of length $n$ in which the Hamming distance between $\ell$-read vectors of any two distinct sequences is at least $d$. We first improve the result of Banerjee \emph{et al.}, who studied $\ell$-read $(n,d)_q$-codes with the constraint $\ell\geq 3$ and $d=3$. Then, we investigate the bounds and constructions of $2$-read codes with a minimum distance of $3$, $4$, and $5$, respectively. Our results indicate that when $d \in \{3,4\}$, the optimal redundancy of $2$-read $(n,d)_q$-codes is $o(\log_q n)$, while for $d=5$ it is $\log_q n+o(\log_q n)$. Additionally, we establish an equivalence between $2$-read $(n,3)_q$-codes and classical $q$-ary single-insertion reconstruction codes using two noisy reads. We improve the lower bound on the redundancy of classical $q$-ary single-insertion reconstruction codes as well as the upper bound on the redundancy of classical $q$-ary single-deletion reconstruction codes when using two noisy reads. Finally, we study $\ell$-read codes under the reconstruction model.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [659]
标题:  Revisiting The Classics: A Study on Identifying and Rectifying Gender  Stereotypes in Rhymes and Poems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11752
作者:  Aditya Narayan Sankaran,  Vigneshwaran Shankaran,  Sampath Lonka,  Rajesh Sharma
备注:  Accepted to appear at LREC-COLING 2024
Abstract:Rhymes and poems are a powerful medium for transmitting cultural norms and societal roles. However, the pervasive existence of gender stereotypes in these works perpetuates biased perceptions and limits the scope of individuals' identities. Past works have shown that stereotyping and prejudice emerge in early childhood, and developmental research on causal mechanisms is critical for understanding and controlling stereotyping and prejudice. This work contributes by gathering a dataset of rhymes and poems to identify gender stereotypes and propose a model with 97\% accuracy to identify gender bias. Gender stereotypes were rectified using a Large Language Model (LLM) and its effectiveness was evaluated in a comparative survey against human educator rectifications. To summarize, this work highlights the pervasive nature of gender stereotypes in literary works and reveals the potential of LLMs to rectify gender stereotypes. This study raises awareness and promotes inclusivity within artistic expressions, making a significant contribution to the discourse on gender equality.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [660]
标题:  Relational Representation Learning Network for Cross-Spectral Image  Patch Matching
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11751
作者:  Chuang Yu,  Yunpeng Liu,  Jinmiao Zhao,  Dou Quan,  Zelin Shi
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, feature relation learning has drawn widespread attention in cross-spectral image patch matching. However, existing related research focuses on extracting diverse relations between image patch features and ignores sufficient intrinsic feature representations of individual image patches. Therefore, an innovative relational representation learning idea is proposed for the first time, which simultaneously focuses on sufficiently mining the intrinsic features of individual image patches and the relations between image patch features. Based on this, we construct a lightweight Relational Representation Learning Network (RRL-Net). Specifically, we innovatively construct an autoencoder to fully characterize the individual intrinsic features, and introduce a Feature Interaction Learning (FIL) module to extract deep-level feature relations. To further fully mine individual intrinsic features, a lightweight Multi-dimensional Global-to-Local Attention (MGLA) module is constructed to enhance the global feature extraction of individual image patches and capture local dependencies within global features. By combining the MGLA module, we further explore the feature extraction network and construct an Attention-based Lightweight Feature Extraction (ALFE) network. In addition, we propose a Multi-Loss Post-Pruning (MLPP) optimization strategy, which greatly promotes network optimization while avoiding increases in parameters and inference time. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our RRL-Net achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on multiple public datasets. Our code will be made public later.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [661]
标题:  Asymptotically Optimal Codes for $(t,s)$-Burst Error
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11750
作者:  Yubo Sun,  Ziyang Lu,  Yiwei Zhang,  Gennian Ge
备注:  Submitted to IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory on Jul. 2023
Abstract:Recently, codes for correcting a burst of errors have attracted significant attention. One of the most important reasons is that bursts of errors occur in certain emerging techniques, such as DNA storage. In this paper, we investigate a type of error, called a $(t,s)$-burst, which deletes $t$ consecutive symbols and inserts $s$ arbitrary symbols at the same coordinate. Note that a $(t,s)$-burst error can be seen as a generalization of a burst of insertions ($t=0$), a burst of deletions ($s=0$), and a burst of substitutions ($t=s$). Our main contribution is to give explicit constructions of $q$-ary $(t,s)$-burst correcting codes with $\log n + O(1)$ bits of redundancy for any given non-negative integers $t$, $s$, and $q \geq 2$. These codes have optimal redundancy up to an additive constant. Furthermore, we apply our $(t,s)$-burst correcting codes to combat other various types of errors and improve the corresponding results. In particular, one of our byproducts is a permutation code capable of correcting a burst of $t$ stable deletions with $\log n + O(1)$ bits of redundancy, which is optimal up to an additive constant.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [662]
标题:  Computing shortest closed curves on non-orientable surfaces
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11749
作者:  Denys Bulavka,  Éric Colin de Verdière,  Niloufar Fuladi
备注:  To appear at SoCG 2024
Abstract:We initiate the study of computing shortest non-separating simple closed curves with some given topological properties on non-orientable surfaces. While, for orientable surfaces, any two non-separating simple closed curves are related by a self-homeomorphism of the surface, and computing shortest such curves has been vastly studied, for non-orientable ones the classification of non-separating simple closed curves up to ambient homeomorphism is subtler, depending on whether the curve is one-sided or two-sided, and whether it is orienting or not (whether it cuts the surface into an orientable one). We prove that computing a shortest orienting (weakly) simple closed curve on a non-orientable combinatorial surface is NP-hard but fixed-parameter tractable in the genus of the surface. In contrast, we can compute a shortest non-separating non-orienting (weakly) simple closed curve with given sidedness in $g^{O(1)}.n\log n$ time, where $g$ is the genus and $n$ the size of the surface. For these algorithms, we develop tools that can be of independent interest, to compute a variation on canonical systems of loops for non-orientable surfaces based on the computation of an orienting curve, and some covering spaces that are essentially quotients of homology covers.
Subjects: Computational Geometry (cs.CG); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Geometric Topology (math.GT)

**编号**: [663]
标题:  A proposal to improve the calculation of the disruption index
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11748
作者:  Christian Leibel,  Lutz Bornmann
备注:  6 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
Abstract:Wu et al. (2019) proposed the disruption index (DI1) as a bibliometric indicator that measures disruptive and consolidating research. Leibel and Bornmann (2024) recently published a literature overview on the disruption index research in Scientometrics. In this letter to the editor, we point out that the method of calculating the DI1 score of a focal paper contains a logical impact measurement error that leads to a meaningful reduction of the score. We explain why this is problematic and propose a correction of the formula.
Subjects: Digital Libraries (cs.DL)

**编号**: [664]
标题:  Embedded Named Entity Recognition using Probing Classifiers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11747
作者:  Nicholas Popovič,  Michael Färber
备注:  
Abstract:Extracting semantic information from generated text is a useful tool for applications such as automated fact checking or retrieval augmented generation. Currently, this requires either separate models during inference, which increases computational cost, or destructive fine-tuning of the language model. Instead, we propose directly embedding information extraction capabilities into pre-trained language models using probing classifiers, enabling efficient simultaneous text generation and information extraction. For this, we introduce an approach called EMBER and show that it enables named entity recognition in decoder-only language models without fine-tuning them and while incurring minimal additional computational cost at inference time. Specifically, our experiments using GPT-2 show that EMBER maintains high token generation rates during streaming text generation, with only a negligible decrease in speed of around 1% compared to a 43.64% slowdown measured for a baseline using a separate NER model. Code and data are available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [665]
标题:  PARMESAN: Parameter-Free Memory Search and Transduction for Dense  Prediction Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11743
作者:  Philip Matthias Winter,  Maria Wimmer,  David Major,  Dimitrios Lenis,  Astrid Berg,  Theresa Neubauer,  Gaia Romana De Paolis,  Johannes Novotny,  Sophia Ulonska,  Katja Bühler
备注:  preprint, 27 pages, 8 figures
Abstract:In this work we address flexibility in deep learning by means of transductive reasoning. For adaptation to new tasks or new data, existing methods typically involve tuning of learnable parameters or even complete re-training from scratch, rendering such approaches unflexible in practice. We argue that the notion of separating computation from memory by the means of transduction can act as a stepping stone for solving these issues. We therefore propose PARMESAN (parameter-free memory search and transduction), a scalable transduction method which leverages a memory module for solving dense prediction tasks. At inference, hidden representations in memory are being searched to find corresponding examples. In contrast to other methods, PARMESAN learns without the requirement for any continuous training or fine-tuning of learnable parameters simply by modifying the memory content. Our method is compatible with commonly used neural architectures and canonically transfers to 1D, 2D, and 3D grid-based data. We demonstrate the capabilities of our approach at complex tasks such as continual and few-shot learning. PARMESAN learns up to 370 times faster than common baselines while being on par in terms of predictive performance, knowledge retention, and data-efficiency.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [666]
标题:  Accelerating Model Predictive Control for Legged Robots through  Distributed Optimization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11742
作者:  Lorenzo Amatucci,  Giulio Turrisi,  Angelo Bratta,  Victor Barasuol,  Claudio Semini
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents a novel approach to enhance Model Predictive Control (MPC) for legged robots through Distributed Optimization. Our method focuses on decomposing the robot dynamics into smaller, parallelizable subsystems, and utilizing the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) to ensure consensus among them. Each subsystem is managed by its own \gls{ocp}, with ADMM facilitating consistency between their optimizations. This approach not only decreases the computational time but also allows for effective scaling with more complex robot configurations, facilitating the integration of additional subsystems such as articulated arms on a quadruped robot. We demonstrate, through numerical evaluations, the convergence of our approach on two systems with increasing complexity. In addition, we showcase that our approach converges towards the same solution when compared to a state-of-the-art centralized whole-body MPC implementation. Moreover, we quantitatively compare the computational efficiency of our method to the centralized approach, revealing up to a 75\% reduction in computational time. Overall, our approach offers a promising avenue for accelerating MPC solutions for legged robots, paving the way for more effective utilization of the computational performance of modern hardware.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [667]
标题:  Post-Quantum Cryptography: Securing Digital Communication in the Quantum  Era
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11741
作者:  Dr. G S Mamatha,  Namya Dimri,  Rasha Sinha
备注:  
Abstract:The advent of quantum computing poses a profound threat to traditional cryptographic systems, exposing vulnerabilities that compromise the security of digital communication channels reliant on RSA, ECC, and similar classical encryption methods. Quantum algorithms, notably Shor's algorithm, exploit the inherent computational power of quantum computers to efficiently solve mathematical problems underlying these cryptographic schemes. In response, post-quantum cryptography (PQC) emerged as a critical field aimed at developing resilient cryptographic algorithms impervious to quantum attacks. This paper delineates the vulnerabilities of classical cryptographic systems to quantum attacks, elucidates the principles of quantum computing, and introduces various PQC algorithms such as lattice-based cryptography, code-based cryptography, hash-based cryptography, and multivariate polynomial cryptography. Highlighting the importance of PQC in securing digital communication amidst quantum computing advancements, this research underscores its pivotal role in safeguarding data integrity, confidentiality, and authenticity in the face of emerging quantum threats.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [668]
标题:  A path-dependent PDE solver based on signature kernels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11738
作者:  Alexandre Pannier,  Cristopher Salvi
备注:  35 pages, 1 figure
Abstract:We develop a provably convergent kernel-based solver for path-dependent PDEs (PPDEs). Our numerical scheme leverages signature kernels, a recently introduced class of kernels on path-space. Specifically, we solve an optimal recovery problem by approximating the solution of a PPDE with an element of minimal norm in the signature reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) constrained to satisfy the PPDE at a finite collection of collocation paths. In the linear case, we show that the optimisation has a unique closed-form solution expressed in terms of signature kernel evaluations at the collocation paths. We prove consistency of the proposed scheme, guaranteeing convergence to the PPDE solution as the number of collocation points increases. Finally, several numerical examples are presented, in particular in the context of option pricing under rough volatility. Our numerical scheme constitutes a valid alternative to the ubiquitous Monte Carlo methods.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Computational Finance (q-fin.CP)

**编号**: [669]
标题:  SMT-Based Dynamic Multi-Robot Task Allocation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11737
作者:  Victoria Marie Tuck,  Pei-Wei Chen,  Georgios Fainekos,  Bardh Hoxha,  Hideki Okamoto,  S. Shankar Sastry,  Sanjit A. Seshia
备注:  26 pages, 6 figures, to be published in NASA Formal Methods Symposium 2024
Abstract:Multi-Robot Task Allocation (MRTA) is a problem that arises in many application domains including package delivery, warehouse robotics, and healthcare. In this work, we consider the problem of MRTA for a dynamic stream of tasks with task deadlines and capacitated agents (capacity for more than one simultaneous task). Previous work commonly focuses on the static case, uses specialized algorithms for restrictive task specifications, or lacks guarantees. We propose an approach to Dynamic MRTA for capacitated robots that is based on Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) solving and addresses these concerns. We show our approach is both sound and complete, and that the SMT encoding is general, enabling extension to a broader class of task specifications. We show how to leverage the incremental solving capabilities of SMT solvers, keeping learned information when allocating new tasks arriving online, and to solve non-incrementally, which we provide runtime comparisons of. Additionally, we provide an algorithm to start with a smaller but potentially incomplete encoding that can iteratively be adjusted to the complete encoding. We evaluate our method on a parameterized set of benchmarks encoding multi-robot delivery created from a graph abstraction of a hospital-like environment. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated using a range of encodings, including quantifier-free theories of uninterpreted functions and linear or bitvector arithmetic across multiple solvers.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [670]
标题:  LSKNet: A Foundation Lightweight Backbone for Remote Sensing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11735
作者:  Yuxuan Li,  Xiang Li,  Yimain Dai,  Qibin Hou,  Li Liu,  Yongxiang Liu,  Ming-Ming Cheng,  Jian Yang
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2303.09030
Abstract:Remote sensing images pose distinct challenges for downstream tasks due to their inherent complexity. While a considerable amount of research has been dedicated to remote sensing classification, object detection and semantic segmentation, most of these studies have overlooked the valuable prior knowledge embedded within remote sensing scenarios. Such prior knowledge can be useful because remote sensing objects may be mistakenly recognized without referencing a sufficiently long-range context, which can vary for different objects. This paper considers these priors and proposes a lightweight Large Selective Kernel Network (LSKNet) backbone. LSKNet can dynamically adjust its large spatial receptive field to better model the ranging context of various objects in remote sensing scenarios. To our knowledge, large and selective kernel mechanisms have not been previously explored in remote sensing images. Without bells and whistles, our lightweight LSKNet sets new state-of-the-art scores on standard remote sensing classification, object detection and semantic segmentation benchmarks. Our comprehensive analysis further validated the significance of the identified priors and the effectiveness of LSKNet. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [671]
标题:  Learning General Policies for Classical Planning Domains: Getting Beyond  C$_2$
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11734
作者:  Simon Ståhlberg,  Blai Bonet,  Hector Geffner
备注:  Submitted to IJCAI 2024
Abstract:GNN-based approaches for learning general policies across planning domains are limited by the expressive power of $C_2$, namely; first-order logic with two variables and counting. This limitation can be overcomed by transitioning to $k$-GNNs, for $k=3$, wherein object embeddings are substituted with triplet embeddings. Yet, while $3$-GNNs have the expressive power of $C_3$, unlike $1$- and $2$-GNNs that are confined to $C_2$, they require quartic time for message exchange and cubic space for embeddings, rendering them impractical. In this work, we introduce a parameterized version of relational GNNs. When $t$ is infinity, R-GNN[$t$] approximates $3$-GNNs using only quadratic space for embeddings. For lower values of $t$, such as $t=1$ and $t=2$, R-GNN[$t$] achieves a weaker approximation by exchanging fewer messages, yet interestingly, often yield the $C_3$ features required in several planning domains. Furthermore, the new R-GNN[$t$] architecture is the original R-GNN architecture with a suitable transformation applied to the input states only. Experimental results illustrate the clear performance gains of R-GNN[$1$] and R-GNN[$2$] over plain R-GNNs, and also over edge transformers that also approximate $3$-GNNs.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [672]
标题:  Hallucination in Perceptual Metric-Driven Speech Enhancement Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11732
作者:  George Close,  Thomas Hain,  Stefan Goetze
备注:  Submitted to EUSIPCO 2024
Abstract:Within the area of speech enhancement, there is an ongoing interest in the creation of neural systems which explicitly aim to improve the perceptual quality of the processed audio. In concert with this is the topic of non-intrusive (i.e. without clean reference) speech quality prediction, for which neural networks are trained to predict human-assigned quality labels directly from distorted audio. When combined, these areas allow for the creation of powerful new speech enhancement systems which can leverage large real-world datasets of distorted audio, by taking inference of a pre-trained speech quality predictor as the sole loss function of the speech enhancement system. This paper aims to identify a potential pitfall with this approach, namely hallucinations which are introduced by the enhancement system `tricking' the speech quality predictor.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [673]
标题:  An efficient algorithm for the Riemannian logarithm on the Stiefel  manifold for a family of Riemannian metrics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11730
作者:  Simon Mataigne,  Ralf Zimmermann,  Nina Miolane
备注:  20 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables
Abstract:Since the popularization of the Stiefel manifold for numerical applications in 1998 in a seminal paper from Edelman et al., it has been exhibited to be a key to solve many problems from optimization, statistics and machine learning. In 2021, Hüper et al. proposed a one-parameter family of Riemannian metrics on the Stiefel manifold, subsuming the well-known Euclidean and canonical metrics. Since then, several methods have been proposed to obtain a candidate for the Riemannian logarithm given any metric from the family. Most of these methods are based on the shooting method or rely on optimization approaches. For the canonical metric, Zimmermann proposed in 2017 a particularly efficient method based on a pure matrix-algebraic approach. In this paper, we derive a generalization of this algorithm that works for the one-parameter family of Riemannian metrics. The algorithm is proposed in two versions, termed backward and forward, for which we prove that it conserves the local linear convergence previously exhibited in Zimmermann's algorithm for the canonical metric.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Differential Geometry (math.DG)

**编号**: [674]
标题:  Hardware Design and Learning-Based Software Architecture of  Musculoskeletal Wheeled Robot Musashi-W for Real-World Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11729
作者:  Kento Kawaharazuka,  Akihiro Miki,  Masahiro Bando,  Temma Suzuki,  Yoshimoto Ribayashi,  Yasunori Toshimitsu,  Yuya Nagamatsu,  Kei Okada,  and Masayuki Inaba
备注:  Accepted at Humanoids2022
Abstract:Various musculoskeletal humanoids have been developed so far. While these humanoids have the advantage of their flexible and redundant bodies that mimic the human body, they are still far from being applied to real-world tasks. One of the reasons for this is the difficulty of bipedal walking in a flexible body. Thus, we developed a musculoskeletal wheeled robot, Musashi-W, by combining a wheeled base and musculoskeletal upper limbs for real-world applications. Also, we constructed its software system by combining static and dynamic body schema learning, reflex control, and visual recognition. We show that the hardware and software of Musashi-W can make the most of the advantages of the musculoskeletal upper limbs, through several tasks of cleaning by human teaching, carrying a heavy object considering muscle addition, and setting a table through dynamic cloth manipulation with variable stiffness.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [675]
标题:  PITA: Physics-Informed Trajectory Autoencoder
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11728
作者:  Johannes Fischer,  Kevin Rösch,  Martin Lauer,  Christoph Stiller
备注:  
Abstract:Validating robotic systems in safety-critical appli-cations requires testing in many scenarios including rare edgecases that are unlikely to occur, requiring to complement real-world testing with testing in simulation. Generative models canbe used to augment real-world datasets with generated data toproduce edge case scenarios by sampling in a learned latentspace. Autoencoders can learn said latent representation for aspecific domain by learning to reconstruct the input data froma lower-dimensional intermediate representation. However, theresulting trajectories are not necessarily physically plausible, butinstead typically contain noise that is not present in the inputtrajectory. To resolve this issue, we propose the novel Physics-Informed Trajectory Autoencoder (PITA) architecture, whichincorporates a physical dynamics model into the loss functionof the autoencoder. This results in smooth trajectories that notonly reconstruct the input trajectory but also adhere to thephysical model. We evaluate PITA on a real-world dataset ofvehicle trajectories and compare its performance to a normalautoencoder and a state-of-the-art action-space autoencoder.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [676]
标题:  Riemannian gradient descent for spherical area-preserving mappings
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11726
作者:  Marco Sutti,  Mei-Heng Yueh
备注:  30 pages, 11 figures, 8 tables
Abstract:We propose a new Riemannian gradient descent method for computing spherical area-preserving mappings of topological spheres using a Riemannian retraction-based framework with theoretically guaranteed convergence. The objective function is based on the stretch energy functional, and the minimization is constrained on a power manifold of unit spheres embedded in 3-dimensional Euclidean space. Numerical experiments on several mesh models demonstrate the accuracy and stability of the proposed framework. Comparisons with two existing state-of-the-art methods for computing area-preserving mappings demonstrate that our algorithm is both competitive and more efficient. Finally, we present a concrete application to the problem of landmark-aligned surface registration of two brain models.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [677]
标题:  Time Series Compression using Quaternion Valued Neural Networks and  Quaternion Backpropagation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11722
作者:  Johannes Pöppelbaum,  Andreas Schwung
备注:  
Abstract:We propose a novel quaternionic time-series compression methodology where we divide a long time-series into segments of data, extract the min, max, mean and standard deviation of these chunks as representative features and encapsulate them in a quaternion, yielding a quaternion valued time-series. This time-series is processed using quaternion valued neural network layers, where we aim to preserve the relation between these features through the usage of the Hamilton product. To train this quaternion neural network, we derive quaternion backpropagation employing the GHR calculus, which is required for a valid product and chain rule in quaternion space. Furthermore, we investigate the connection between the derived update rules and automatic differentiation. We apply our proposed compression method on the Tennessee Eastman Dataset, where we perform fault classification using the compressed data in two settings: a fully supervised one and in a semi supervised, contrastive learning setting. Both times, we were able to outperform real valued counterparts as well as two baseline models: one with the uncompressed time-series as the input and the other with a regular downsampling using the mean. Further, we could improve the classification benchmark set by SimCLR-TS from 81.43% to 83.90%.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [678]
标题:  Models for Storage in Database Backends
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11716
作者:  Edgard Schiebelbein,  Saalik Hatia,  Annette Bieniusa,  Gustavo Petri (Amazon Web Services),  Carla Ferreira (NOVA),  Marc Shapiro (DELYS)
备注:  Workshop on Principles and Practice of Consistency for Distributed Data (PaPoC), EuroSys (ACM), Apr 2024, Ath{\`e}nes, Greece
Abstract:This paper describes ongoing work on developing a formal specification of a database backend. We present the formalisation of the expected behaviour of a basic transactional system that calls into a simple store API, and instantiate in two semantic models. The first one is a map-based, classical versioned key-value store; the second one, journal-based, appends individual transaction effects to a journal. We formalise a significant part of the specification in the Coq proof assistant. This work will form the basis for a formalisation of a full-fledged backend store with features such as caching or write-ahead logging, as variations on maps and journals.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [679]
标题:  Implicit Discriminative Knowledge Learning for Visible-Infrared Person  Re-Identification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11708
作者:  Kaijie Ren,  Lei Zhang
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Visible-Infrared Person Re-identification (VI-ReID) is a challenging cross-modal pedestrian retrieval task, due to significant intra-class variations and cross-modal discrepancies among different cameras. Existing works mainly focus on embedding images of different modalities into a unified space to mine modality-shared features. They only seek distinctive information within these shared features, while ignoring the identity-aware useful information that is implicit in the modality-specific features. To address this issue, we propose a novel Implicit Discriminative Knowledge Learning (IDKL) network to uncover and leverage the implicit discriminative information contained within the modality-specific. First, we extract modality-specific and modality-shared features using a novel dual-stream network. Then, the modality-specific features undergo purification to reduce their modality style discrepancies while preserving identity-aware discriminative knowledge. Subsequently, this kind of implicit knowledge is distilled into the modality-shared feature to enhance its distinctiveness. Finally, an alignment loss is proposed to minimize modality discrepancy on enhanced modality-shared features. Extensive experiments on multiple public datasets demonstrate the superiority of IDKL network over the state-of-the-art methods. Code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [680]
标题:  Generalized Multi-Source Inference for Text Conditioned Music Diffusion  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11706
作者:  Emilian Postolache,  Giorgio Mariani,  Luca Cosmo,  Emmanouil Benetos,  Emanuele Rodolà
备注:  Accepted at ICASSP 2024
Abstract:Multi-Source Diffusion Models (MSDM) allow for compositional musical generation tasks: generating a set of coherent sources, creating accompaniments, and performing source separation. Despite their versatility, they require estimating the joint distribution over the sources, necessitating pre-separated musical data, which is rarely available, and fixing the number and type of sources at training time. This paper generalizes MSDM to arbitrary time-domain diffusion models conditioned on text embeddings. These models do not require separated data as they are trained on mixtures, can parameterize an arbitrary number of sources, and allow for rich semantic control. We propose an inference procedure enabling the coherent generation of sources and accompaniments. Additionally, we adapt the Dirac separator of MSDM to perform source separation. We experiment with diffusion models trained on Slakh2100 and MTG-Jamendo, showcasing competitive generation and separation results in a relaxed data setting.
Subjects: Sound (cs.SD); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [681]
标题:  LLaVA-UHD: an LMM Perceiving Any Aspect Ratio and High-Resolution Images
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11703
作者:  Ruyi Xu,  Yuan Yao,  Zonghao Guo,  Junbo Cui,  Zanlin Ni,  Chunjiang Ge,  Tat-Seng Chua,  Zhiyuan Liu,  Maosong Sun,  Gao Huang
备注:  Preprint
Abstract:Visual encoding constitutes the basis of large multimodal models (LMMs) in understanding the visual world. Conventional LMMs process images in fixed sizes and limited resolutions, while recent explorations in this direction are limited in adaptivity, efficiency, and even correctness. In this work, we first take GPT-4V and LLaVA-1.5 as representative examples and expose systematic flaws rooted in their visual encoding strategy. To address the challenges, we present LLaVA-UHD, a large multimodal model that can efficiently perceive images in any aspect ratio and high resolution. LLaVA-UHD includes three key components: (1) An image modularization strategy that divides native-resolution images into smaller variable-sized slices for efficient and extensible encoding, (2) a compression module that further condenses image tokens from visual encoders, and (3) a spatial schema to organize slice tokens for LLMs. Comprehensive experiments show that LLaVA-UHD outperforms established LMMs trained with 2-3 orders of magnitude more data on 9 benchmarks. Notably, our model built on LLaVA-1.5 336x336 supports 6 times larger (i.e., 672x1088) resolution images using only 94% inference computation, and achieves 6.4 accuracy improvement on TextVQA. Moreover, the model can be efficiently trained in academic settings, within 23 hours on 8 A100 GPUs (vs. 26 hours of LLaVA-1.5). We make the data and code publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [682]
标题:  Virbo: Multimodal Multilingual Avatar Video Generation in Digital  Marketing
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11700
作者:  Juan Zhang,  Jiahao Chen,  Cheng Wang,  Zhiwang Yu,  Can Liu,  Tangquan Qi,  Di Wu
备注:  
Abstract:With the widespread popularity of internet celebrity marketing all over the world, short video production has gradually become a popular way of presenting products information. However, the traditional video production industry usually includes series of procedures as script writing, video filming in a professional studio, video clipping, special effects rendering, customized post-processing, and so forth. Not to mention that multilingual videos is not accessible for those who could not speak multilingual languages. These complicated procedures usually needs a professional team to complete, and this made short video production costly in both time and money. This paper presents an intelligent system that supports the automatic generation of talking avatar videos, namely Virbo. With simply a user-specified script, Virbo could use a deep generative model to generate a target talking videos. Meanwhile, the system also supports multimodal inputs to customize the video with specified face, specified voice and special effects. This system also integrated a multilingual customization module that supports generate multilingual talking avatar videos in a batch with hundreds of delicate templates and creative special effects. Through a series of user studies and demo tests, we found that Virbo can generate talking avatar videos that maintained a high quality of videos as those from a professional team while reducing the entire production costs significantly. This intelligent system will effectively promote the video production industry and facilitate the internet marketing neglecting of language barriers and cost challenges.
Subjects: Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [683]
标题:  Urban Scene Diffusion through Semantic Occupancy Map
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11697
作者:  Junge Zhang,  Qihang Zhang,  Li Zhang,  Ramana Rao Kompella,  Gaowen Liu,  Bolei Zhou
备注:  The project website is this https URL
Abstract:Generating unbounded 3D scenes is crucial for large-scale scene understanding and simulation. Urban scenes, unlike natural landscapes, consist of various complex man-made objects and structures such as roads, traffic signs, vehicles, and buildings. To create a realistic and detailed urban scene, it is crucial to accurately represent the geometry and semantics of the underlying objects, going beyond their visual appearance. In this work, we propose UrbanDiffusion, a 3D diffusion model that is conditioned on a Bird's-Eye View (BEV) map and generates an urban scene with geometry and semantics in the form of semantic occupancy map. Our model introduces a novel paradigm that learns the data distribution of scene-level structures within a latent space and further enables the expansion of the synthesized scene into an arbitrary scale. After training on real-world driving datasets, our model can generate a wide range of diverse urban scenes given the BEV maps from the held-out set and also generalize to the synthesized maps from a driving simulator. We further demonstrate its application to scene image synthesis with a pretrained image generator as a prior.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [684]
标题:  Generalization error of spectral algorithms
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11696
作者:  Maksim Velikanov,  Maxim Panov,  Dmitry Yarotsky
备注:  
Abstract:The asymptotically precise estimation of the generalization of kernel methods has recently received attention due to the parallels between neural networks and their associated kernels. However, prior works derive such estimates for training by kernel ridge regression (KRR), whereas neural networks are typically trained with gradient descent (GD). In the present work, we consider the training of kernels with a family of $\textit{spectral algorithms}$ specified by profile $h(\lambda)$, and including KRR and GD as special cases. Then, we derive the generalization error as a functional of learning profile $h(\lambda)$ for two data models: high-dimensional Gaussian and low-dimensional translation-invariant model. Under power-law assumptions on the spectrum of the kernel and target, we use our framework to (i) give full loss asymptotics for both noisy and noiseless observations (ii) show that the loss localizes on certain spectral scales, giving a new perspective on the KRR saturation phenomenon (iii) conjecture, and demonstrate for the considered data models, the universality of the loss w.r.t. non-spectral details of the problem, but only in case of noisy observation.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [685]
标题:  TrajectoryNAS: A Neural Architecture Search for Trajectory Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11695
作者:  Ali Asghar Sharifi,  Ali Zoljodi,  Masoud Daneshtalab
备注:  
Abstract:Autonomous driving systems are a rapidly evolving technology that enables driverless car production. Trajectory prediction is a critical component of autonomous driving systems, enabling cars to anticipate the movements of surrounding objects for safe navigation. Trajectory prediction using Lidar point-cloud data performs better than 2D images due to providing 3D information. However, processing point-cloud data is more complicated and time-consuming than 2D images. Hence, state-of-the-art 3D trajectory predictions using point-cloud data suffer from slow and erroneous predictions. This paper introduces TrajectoryNAS, a pioneering method that focuses on utilizing point cloud data for trajectory prediction. By leveraging Neural Architecture Search (NAS), TrajectoryNAS automates the design of trajectory prediction models, encompassing object detection, tracking, and forecasting in a cohesive manner. This approach not only addresses the complex interdependencies among these tasks but also emphasizes the importance of accuracy and efficiency in trajectory modeling. Through empirical studies, TrajectoryNAS demonstrates its effectiveness in enhancing the performance of autonomous driving systems, marking a significant advancement in the field.Experimental results reveal that TrajcetoryNAS yield a minimum of 4.8 higger accuracy and 1.1* lower latency over competing methods on the NuScenes dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [686]
标题:  Beamforming Design for Semantic-Bit Coexisting Communication System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11693
作者:  Maojun Zhang,  Guangxu Zhu,  Richeng Jin,  Xiaoming Chen,  Qingjiang Shi,  Caijun Zhong,  Kaibing Huang
备注:  Submitted to IEEE for possible publication
Abstract:Semantic communication (SemCom) is emerging as a key technology for future sixth-generation (6G) systems. Unlike traditional bit-level communication (BitCom), SemCom directly optimizes performance at the semantic level, leading to supe- rior communication efficiency. Nevertheless, the task-oriented nature of SemCom renders it challenging to completely replace BitCom. Consequently, it is desired to consider a semantic-bit coexisting communication system, where a base station (BS) serves SemCom users (sem-users) and BitCom users (bit-users) simultaneously. Such a system faces severe and heterogeneous inter-user interference. In this context, this paper provides a new semantic-bit coexisting communication framework and proposes a spatial beamforming scheme to accommodate both types of users. Specifically, we consider maximizing the semantic rate for semantic users while ensuring the quality-of-service (QoS) requirements for bit-users. Due to the intractability of obtaining the exact closed-form expression of the semantic rate, a data driven method is first applied to attain an approximated expression via data fitting. With the resulting complex transcendental function, majorization minimization (MM) is adopted to convert the original formulated problem into a multiple-ratio problem, which allows fractional programming (FP) to be used to further transform the problem into an inhomogeneous quadratically constrained quadratic programs (QCQP) problem. Solving the problem leads to a semi-closed form solution with undetermined Lagrangian factors that can be updated by a fixed point algorithm. Extensive simulation results demonstrate that the proposed beamforming scheme significantly outperforms conventional beamforming algorithms such as zero-forcing (ZF), maximum ratio transmission (MRT), and weighted minimum mean-square error (WMMSE).
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [687]
标题:  TTT-KD: Test-Time Training for 3D Semantic Segmentation through  Knowledge Distillation from Foundation Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11691
作者:  Lisa Weijler,  Muhammad Jehanzeb Mirza,  Leon Sick,  Can Ekkazan,  Pedro Hermosilla
备注:  
Abstract:Test-Time Training (TTT) proposes to adapt a pre-trained network to changing data distributions on-the-fly. In this work, we propose the first TTT method for 3D semantic segmentation, TTT-KD, which models Knowledge Distillation (KD) from foundation models (e.g. DINOv2) as a self-supervised objective for adaptation to distribution shifts at test-time. Given access to paired image-pointcloud (2D-3D) data, we first optimize a 3D segmentation backbone for the main task of semantic segmentation using the pointclouds and the task of 2D $\to$ 3D KD by using an off-the-shelf 2D pre-trained foundation model. At test-time, our TTT-KD updates the 3D segmentation backbone for each test sample, by using the self-supervised task of knowledge distillation, before performing the final prediction. Extensive evaluations on multiple indoor and outdoor 3D segmentation benchmarks show the utility of TTT-KD, as it improves performance for both in-distribution (ID) and out-of-distribution (ODO) test datasets. We achieve a gain of up to 13% mIoU (7% on average) when the train and test distributions are similar and up to 45% (20% on average) when adapting to OOD test samples.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [688]
标题:  Crystalformer: Infinitely Connected Attention for Periodic Structure  Encoding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11686
作者:  Tatsunori Taniai,  Ryo Igarashi,  Yuta Suzuki,  Naoya Chiba,  Kotaro Saito,  Yoshitaka Ushiku,  Kanta Ono
备注:  13 main pages, 3 figures, 4 tables, 10 appendix pages. Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024. For more information, see this https URL
Abstract:Predicting physical properties of materials from their crystal structures is a fundamental problem in materials science. In peripheral areas such as the prediction of molecular properties, fully connected attention networks have been shown to be successful. However, unlike these finite atom arrangements, crystal structures are infinitely repeating, periodic arrangements of atoms, whose fully connected attention results in infinitely connected attention. In this work, we show that this infinitely connected attention can lead to a computationally tractable formulation, interpreted as neural potential summation, that performs infinite interatomic potential summations in a deeply learned feature space. We then propose a simple yet effective Transformer-based encoder architecture for crystal structures called Crystalformer. Compared to an existing Transformer-based model, the proposed model requires only 29.4% of the number of parameters, with minimal modifications to the original Transformer architecture. Despite the architectural simplicity, the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art methods for various property regression tasks on the Materials Project and JARVIS-DFT datasets.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)

**编号**: [689]
标题:  Primal-dual interior-point algorithm for linearly constrained convex  optimization based on a parametric algebraic transformation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11684
作者:  Aicha Kraria,  Bachir Merikhi,  Djamel Benterki
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we present an interior point algorithm with a full-Newton step for solving a linearly constrained convex optimization problem, in which we propose a generalization of the work of Kheirfam and Nasrollahi \cite{kheirfam2018full}, that consists in determining the descent directions through a parametric algebraic transformation. The work concludes with a complete study of the convergence of the algorithm and its complexity, where we show that the obtained algorithm achieves a polynomial complexity bounds.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [690]
标题:  MASSTAR: A Multi-Modal and Large-Scale Scene Dataset with a Versatile  Toolchain for Surface Prediction and Completion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11681
作者:  Guiyong Zheng,  Jinqi Jiang,  Chen Feng,  Shaojie Shen,  Boyu Zhou
备注:  Submitted to IROS2024. Code: this https URL Project Page: this https URL
Abstract:Surface prediction and completion have been widely studied in various applications. Recently, research in surface completion has evolved from small objects to complex large-scale scenes. As a result, researchers have begun increasing the volume of data and leveraging a greater variety of data modalities including rendered RGB images, descriptive texts, depth images, etc, to enhance algorithm performance. However, existing datasets suffer from a deficiency in the amounts of scene-level models along with the corresponding multi-modal information. Therefore, a method to scale the datasets and generate multi-modal information in them efficiently is essential. To bridge this research gap, we propose MASSTAR: a Multi-modal lArge-scale Scene dataset with a verSatile Toolchain for surfAce pRediction and completion. We develop a versatile and efficient toolchain for processing the raw 3D data from the environments. It screens out a set of fine-grained scene models and generates the corresponding multi-modal data. Utilizing the toolchain, we then generate an example dataset composed of over a thousand scene-level models with partial real-world data added. We compare MASSTAR with the existing datasets, which validates its superiority: the ability to efficiently extract high-quality models from complex scenarios to expand the dataset. Additionally, several representative surface completion algorithms are benchmarked on MASSTAR, which reveals that existing algorithms can hardly deal with scene-level completion. We will release the source code of our toolchain and the dataset. For more details, please see our project page at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [691]
标题:  NEDS-SLAM: A Novel Neural Explicit Dense Semantic SLAM Framework using  3D Gaussian Splatting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11679
作者:  Yiming Ji,  Yang Liu,  Guanghu Xie,  Boyu Ma,  Zongwu Xie
备注:  
Abstract:We propose NEDS-SLAM, an Explicit Dense semantic SLAM system based on 3D Gaussian representation, that enables robust 3D semantic mapping, accurate camera tracking, and high-quality rendering in real-time. In the system, we propose a Spatially Consistent Feature Fusion model to reduce the effect of erroneous estimates from pre-trained segmentation head on semantic reconstruction, achieving robust 3D semantic Gaussian mapping. Additionally, we employ a lightweight encoder-decoder to compress the high-dimensional semantic features into a compact 3D Gaussian representation, mitigating the burden of excessive memory consumption. Furthermore, we leverage the advantage of 3D Gaussian splatting, which enables efficient and differentiable novel view rendering, and propose a Virtual Camera View Pruning method to eliminate outlier GS points, thereby effectively enhancing the quality of scene representations. Our NEDS-SLAM method demonstrates competitive performance over existing dense semantic SLAM methods in terms of mapping and tracking accuracy on Replica and ScanNet datasets, while also showing excellent capabilities in 3D dense semantic mapping.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [692]
标题:  Exploring 3D-aware Latent Spaces for Efficiently Learning Numerous  Scenes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11678
作者:  Antoine Schnepf,  Karim Kassab,  Jean-Yves Franceschi,  Laurent Caraffa,  Flavian Vasile,  Jeremie Mary,  Andrew Comport,  Valérie Gouet-Brunet
备注:  
Abstract:We present a method enabling the scaling of NeRFs to learn a large number of semantically-similar scenes. We combine two techniques to improve the required training time and memory cost per scene. First, we learn a 3D-aware latent space in which we train Tri-Plane scene representations, hence reducing the resolution at which scenes are learned. Moreover, we present a way to share common information across scenes, hence allowing for a reduction of model complexity to learn a particular scene. Our method reduces effective per-scene memory costs by 44% and per-scene time costs by 86% when training 1000 scenes. Our project page can be found at this https URL .
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [693]
标题:  Better (pseudo-)labels for semi-supervised instance segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11675
作者:  François Porcher,  Camille Couprie,  Marc Szafraniec,  Jakob Verbeek
备注:  Appeared at the Practical ML for Low Resource Settings workshop at ICLR 2024
Abstract:Despite the availability of large datasets for tasks like image classification and image-text alignment, labeled data for more complex recognition tasks, such as detection and segmentation, is less abundant. In particular, for instance segmentation annotations are time-consuming to produce, and the distribution of instances is often highly skewed across classes. While semi-supervised teacher-student distillation methods show promise in leveraging vast amounts of unlabeled data, they suffer from miscalibration, resulting in overconfidence in frequently represented classes and underconfidence in rarer ones. Additionally, these methods encounter difficulties in efficiently learning from a limited set of examples. We introduce a dual-strategy to enhance the teacher model's training process, substantially improving the performance on few-shot learning. Secondly, we propose a calibration correction mechanism that that enables the student model to correct the teacher's calibration errors. Using our approach, we observed marked improvements over a state-of-the-art supervised baseline performance on the LVIS dataset, with an increase of 2.8% in average precision (AP) and 10.3% gain in AP for rare classes.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [694]
标题:  Towards Generalizing to Unseen Domains with Few Labels
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11674
作者:  Chamuditha Jayanga Galappaththige,  Sanoojan Baliah,  Malitha Gunawardhana,  Muhammad Haris Khan
备注:  Accepted at CVPR 2024
Abstract:We approach the challenge of addressing semi-supervised domain generalization (SSDG). Specifically, our aim is to obtain a model that learns domain-generalizable features by leveraging a limited subset of labelled data alongside a substantially larger pool of unlabeled data. Existing domain generalization (DG) methods which are unable to exploit unlabeled data perform poorly compared to semi-supervised learning (SSL) methods under SSDG setting. Nevertheless, SSL methods have considerable room for performance improvement when compared to fully-supervised DG training. To tackle this underexplored, yet highly practical problem of SSDG, we make the following core contributions. First, we propose a feature-based conformity technique that matches the posterior distributions from the feature space with the pseudo-label from the model's output space. Second, we develop a semantics alignment loss to learn semantically-compatible representations by regularizing the semantic structure in the feature space. Our method is plug-and-play and can be readily integrated with different SSL-based SSDG baselines without introducing any additional parameters. Extensive experimental results across five challenging DG benchmarks with four strong SSL baselines suggest that our method provides consistent and notable gains in two different SSDG settings.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [695]
标题:  HDLdebugger: Streamlining HDL debugging with Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11671
作者:  Xufeng Yao,  Haoyang Li,  Tsz Ho Chan,  Wenyi Xiao,  Mingxuan Yuan,  Yu Huang,  Lei Chen,  Bei Yu
备注:  13 pages,5 figures
Abstract:In the domain of chip design, Hardware Description Languages (HDLs) play a pivotal role. However, due to the complex syntax of HDLs and the limited availability of online resources, debugging HDL codes remains a difficult and time-intensive task, even for seasoned engineers. Consequently, there is a pressing need to develop automated HDL code debugging models, which can alleviate the burden on hardware engineers. Despite the strong capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in generating, completing, and debugging software code, their utilization in the specialized field of HDL debugging has been limited and, to date, has not yielded satisfactory results. In this paper, we propose an LLM-assisted HDL debugging framework, namely HDLdebugger, which consists of HDL debugging data generation via a reverse engineering approach, a search engine for retrieval-augmented generation, and a retrieval-augmented LLM fine-tuning approach. Through the integration of these components, HDLdebugger can automate and streamline HDL debugging for chip design. Our comprehensive experiments, conducted on an HDL code dataset sourced from Huawei, reveal that HDLdebugger outperforms 13 cutting-edge LLM baselines, displaying exceptional effectiveness in HDL code debugging.
Subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [696]
标题:  Advancing Quantum Software Engineering: A Vision of Hybrid Full-Stack  Iterative Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11670
作者:  Arif Ali Khan,  Davide Taibi,  Cécile M. Perrault,  Asif Ali Khan
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces a vision for Quantum Software Develop- ment lifecycle, proposing a hybrid full-stack iterative model that integrates quantum and classical computing. Addressing the cur- rent challenges in Quantum Computing (QC) such as the need for integrating diverse programming languages and managing the complexities of quantum-classical systems, this model is rooted in the principles of DevOps and continuous software engineering. It presents a comprehensive lifecycle for quantum software develop- ment, encompassing quantum-agnostic coding, testing, deployment, cloud computing services, orchestration, translation, execution, and interpretation phases. Each phase is designed to accommodate the unique demands of QC, enabling traditional software developers to engage with QC environments without needing in-depth QC expertise. The paper presents a detailed implementation roadmap, utilizing a range of existing tools and frameworks, thereby making quantum software development more accessible and efficient. The proposed model not only addresses current challenges in quantum software development but also makes a substantial contribution to the field of Quantum Software Engineering (QSE). By propos- ing a structured and accessible model, it sets the stage for further advancements and research in QSE, enhancing its practicality and relevance in a wide range of applications.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [697]
标题:  Semantic Data Representation for Explainable Windows Malware Detection  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11669
作者:  Peter Švec,  Štefan Balogh,  Martin Homola,  Ján Kľuka,  Tomáš Bisták
备注:  arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2301.00153
Abstract:Ontologies are a standard tool for creating semantic schemata in many knowledge intensive domains of human interest. They are becoming increasingly important also in the areas that have been until very recently dominated by subsymbolic knowledge representation and machine-learning (ML) based data processing. One such area is information security, and specifically, malware detection. We thus propose PE Malware Ontology that offers a reusable semantic schema for Portable Executable (PE - the Windows binary format) malware files. This ontology is inspired by the structure of the EMBER dataset, which focuses on the static malware analysis of PE files. With this proposal, we hope to provide a unified semantic representation for the existing and future PE-malware datasets and facilitate the application of symbolic, neuro-symbolic, or otherwise explainable approaches in the PE-malware-detection domain, which may produce interpretable results described by the terms defined in our ontology. In addition, we also publish semantically treated EMBER data, including fractional datasets, to support the reproducibility of experiments on EMBER. We supplement our work with a preliminary case study, conducted using concept learning, to show the general feasibility of our approach. While we were not able to match the precision of the state-of-the-art ML tools, the learned malware discriminators were interesting and highly interpretable.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [698]
标题:  Binary Noise for Binary Tasks: Masked Bernoulli Diffusion for  Unsupervised Anomaly Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11667
作者:  Julia Wolleb,  Florentin Bieder,  Paul Friedrich,  Peter Zhang,  Alicia Durrer,  Philippe C. Cattin
备注:  
Abstract:The high performance of denoising diffusion models for image generation has paved the way for their application in unsupervised medical anomaly detection. As diffusion-based methods require a lot of GPU memory and have long sampling times, we present a novel and fast unsupervised anomaly detection approach based on latent Bernoulli diffusion models. We first apply an autoencoder to compress the input images into a binary latent representation. Next, a diffusion model that follows a Bernoulli noise schedule is employed to this latent space and trained to restore binary latent representations from perturbed ones. The binary nature of this diffusion model allows us to identify entries in the latent space that have a high probability of flipping their binary code during the denoising process, which indicates out-of-distribution data. We propose a masking algorithm based on these probabilities, which improves the anomaly detection scores. We achieve state-of-the-art performance compared to other diffusion-based unsupervised anomaly detection algorithms while significantly reducing sampling time and memory consumption. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [699]
标题:  Normalized Validity Scores for DNNs in Regression based Eye Feature  Extraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11665
作者:  Wolfgang Fuhl
备注:  
Abstract:We propose an improvement to the landmark validity loss. Landmark detection is widely used in head pose estimation, eyelid shape extraction, as well as pupil and iris segmentation. There are numerous additional applications where landmark detection is used to estimate the shape of complex objects. One part of this process is the accurate and fine-grained detection of the shape. The other part is the validity or inaccuracy per landmark, which can be used to detect unreliable areas, where the shape possibly does not fit, and to improve the accuracy of the entire shape extraction by excluding inaccurate landmarks. We propose a normalization in the loss formulation, which improves the accuracy of the entire approach due to the numerical balance of the normalized inaccuracy. In addition, we propose a margin for the inaccuracy to reduce the impact of gradients, which are produced by negligible errors close to the ground truth.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [700]
标题:  Calibration-Based ALE Model Order Reduction for Hyperbolic Problems with  Self-Similar Travelling Discontinuities
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11664
作者:  Monica Nonino,  Davide Torlo
备注:  
Abstract:We propose a novel Model Order Reduction framework that is able to handle solutions of hyperbolic problems characterized by multiple travelling discontinuities. By means of an optimization based approach, we introduce suitable calibration maps that allow us to transform the original solution manifold into a lower dimensional one. The optimization process does not require the knowledge of the discontinuities location. In the online phase, the coefficients of the projection of the reduced order solution onto the reduced space are recovered by means of an Artificial Neural Network. To validate the methodology, we present numerical results for the 1D Sod shock tube problem and for the 2D double Mach reflection problem, also in the parametric case.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [701]
标题:  FE-DeTr: Keypoint Detection and Tracking in Low-quality Image Frames  with Events
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11662
作者:  Xiangyuan Wang,  Kuangyi Chen,  Wen Yang,  Lei Yu,  Yannan Xing,  Huai Yu
备注:  7 pages, Accepted by ICRA 2024
Abstract:Keypoint detection and tracking in traditional image frames are often compromised by image quality issues such as motion blur and extreme lighting conditions. Event cameras offer potential solutions to these challenges by virtue of their high temporal resolution and high dynamic range. However, they have limited performance in practical applications due to their inherent noise in event data. This paper advocates fusing the complementary information from image frames and event streams to achieve more robust keypoint detection and tracking. Specifically, we propose a novel keypoint detection network that fuses the textural and structural information from image frames with the high-temporal-resolution motion information from event streams, namely FE-DeTr. The network leverages a temporal response consistency for supervision, ensuring stable and efficient keypoint detection. Moreover, we use a spatio-temporal nearest-neighbor search strategy for robust keypoint tracking. Extensive experiments are conducted on a new dataset featuring both image frames and event data captured under extreme conditions. The experimental results confirm the superior performance of our method over both existing frame-based and event-based methods.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [702]
标题:  Combining Local and Global Perception for Autonomous Navigation on  Nano-UAVs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11661
作者:  Lorenzo Lamberti,  Georg Rutishauser,  Francesco Conti,  Luca Benini
备注:  5 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, 1 video
Abstract:A critical challenge in deploying unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for autonomous tasks is their ability to navigate in an unknown environment. This paper introduces a novel vision-depth fusion approach for autonomous navigation on nano-UAVs. We combine the visual-based PULP-Dronet convolutional neural network for semantic information extraction, i.e., serving as the global perception, with 8x8px depth maps for close-proximity maneuvers, i.e., the local perception. When tested in-field, our integration strategy highlights the complementary strengths of both visual and depth sensory information. We achieve a 100% success rate over 15 flights in a complex navigation scenario, encompassing straight pathways, static obstacle avoidance, and 90° turns.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [703]
标题:  LocalStyleFool: Regional Video Style Transfer Attack Using Segment  Anything Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11656
作者:  Yuxin Cao,  Jinghao Li,  Xi Xiao,  Derui Wang,  Minhui Xue,  Hao Ge,  Wei Liu,  Guangwu Hu
备注:  Accepted to 2024 IEEE Security and Privacy Workshops (SPW)
Abstract:Previous work has shown that well-crafted adversarial perturbations can threaten the security of video recognition systems. Attackers can invade such models with a low query budget when the perturbations are semantic-invariant, such as StyleFool. Despite the query efficiency, the naturalness of the minutia areas still requires amelioration, since StyleFool leverages style transfer to all pixels in each frame. To close the gap, we propose LocalStyleFool, an improved black-box video adversarial attack that superimposes regional style-transfer-based perturbations on videos. Benefiting from the popularity and scalably usability of Segment Anything Model (SAM), we first extract different regions according to semantic information and then track them through the video stream to maintain the temporal consistency. Then, we add style-transfer-based perturbations to several regions selected based on the associative criterion of transfer-based gradient information and regional area. Perturbation fine adjustment is followed to make stylized videos adversarial. We demonstrate that LocalStyleFool can improve both intra-frame and inter-frame naturalness through a human-assessed survey, while maintaining competitive fooling rate and query efficiency. Successful experiments on the high-resolution dataset also showcase that scrupulous segmentation of SAM helps to improve the scalability of adversarial attacks under high-resolution data.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [704]
标题:  Prioritized Semantic Learning for Zero-shot Instance Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11650
作者:  Xander Sun,  Louis Lau,  Hoyard Zhi,  Ronghe Qiu,  Junwei Liang
备注:  
Abstract:We study zero-shot instance navigation, in which the agent navigates to a specific object without using object annotations for training. Previous object navigation approaches apply the image-goal navigation (ImageNav) task (go to the location of an image) for pretraining, and transfer the agent to achieve object goals using a vision-language model. However, these approaches lead to issues of semantic neglect, where the model fails to learn meaningful semantic alignments. In this paper, we propose a Prioritized Semantic Learning (PSL) method to improve the semantic understanding ability of navigation agents. Specifically, a semantic-enhanced PSL agent is proposed and a prioritized semantic training strategy is introduced to select goal images that exhibit clear semantic supervision and relax the reward function from strict exact view matching. At inference time, a semantic expansion inference scheme is designed to preserve the same granularity level of the goal-semantic as training. Furthermore, for the popular HM3D environment, we present an Instance Navigation (InstanceNav) task that requires going to a specific object instance with detailed descriptions, as opposed to the Object Navigation (ObjectNav) task where the goal is defined merely by the object category. Our PSL agent outperforms the previous state-of-the-art by 66% on zero-shot ObjectNav in terms of success rate and is also superior on the new InstanceNav task. Code will be released at https://anonymous.4open. science/r/PSL/.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [705]
标题:  Gridless 2D Recovery of Lines using the Sliding Frank-Wolfe Algorithm
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11649
作者:  Kévin Polisano (LJK),  Basile Dubois-Bonnaire (LJK),  Sylvain Meignen (LJK)
备注:  
Abstract:We present a new approach leveraging the Sliding Frank--Wolfe algorithm to address the challenge of line recovery in degraded images. Building upon advances in conditional gradient methods for sparse inverse problems with differentiable measurement models, we propose two distinct models tailored for line detection tasks within the realm of blurred line deconvolution and ridge detection of linear chirps in spectrogram images.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [706]
标题:  Vehicle single track modeling using physics guided neural differential  equations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11648
作者:  Stephan Rhode,  Fabian Jarmolowitz,  Felix Berkel
备注:  preprint, 11 pages
Abstract:In this paper, we follow the physics guided modeling approach and integrate a neural differential equation network into the physical structure of a vehicle single track model. By relying on the kinematic relations of the single track ordinary differential equations (ODE), a small neural network and few training samples are sufficient to substantially improve the model accuracy compared with a pure physics based vehicle single track model. To be more precise, the sum of squared error is reduced by 68% in the considered scenario. In addition, it is demonstrated that the prediction capabilities of the physics guided neural ODE model are superior compared with a pure black box neural differential equation approach.
Subjects: Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)

**编号**: [707]
标题:  MedMerge: Merging Models for Effective Transfer Learning to Medical  Imaging Tasks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11646
作者:  Ibrahim Almakky,  Santosh Sanjeev,  Anees Ur Rehman Hashmi,  Mohammad Areeb Qazi,  Mohammad Yaqub
备注:  
Abstract:Transfer learning has become a powerful tool to initialize deep learning models to achieve faster convergence and higher performance. This is especially useful in the medical imaging analysis domain, where data scarcity limits possible performance gains for deep learning models. Some advancements have been made in boosting the transfer learning performance gain by merging models starting from the same initialization. However, in the medical imaging analysis domain, there is an opportunity in merging models starting from different initialisations, thus combining the features learnt from different tasks. In this work, we propose MedMerge, a method whereby the weights of different models can be merged, and their features can be effectively utilized to boost performance on a new task. With MedMerge, we learn kernel-level weights that can later be used to merge the models into a single model, even when starting from different initializations. Testing on various medical imaging analysis tasks, we show that our merged model can achieve significant performance gains, with up to 3% improvement on the F1 score. The code implementation of this work will be available at this http URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [708]
标题:  Diffusion-Based Environment-Aware Trajectory Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11643
作者:  Theodor Westny,  Björn Olofsson,  Erik Frisk
备注:  
Abstract:The ability to predict the future trajectories of traffic participants is crucial for the safe and efficient operation of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, a diffusion-based generative model for multi-agent trajectory prediction is proposed. The model is capable of capturing the complex interactions between traffic participants and the environment, accurately learning the multimodal nature of the data. The effectiveness of the approach is assessed on large-scale datasets of real-world traffic scenarios, showing that our model outperforms several well-established methods in terms of prediction accuracy. By the incorporation of differential motion constraints on the model output, we illustrate that our model is capable of generating a diverse set of realistic future trajectories. Through the use of an interaction-aware guidance signal, we further demonstrate that the model can be adapted to predict the behavior of less cooperative agents, emphasizing its practical applicability under uncertain traffic conditions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [709]
标题:  Guiding the generation of counterfactual explanations through temporal  background knowledge for Predictive Process Monitoring
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11642
作者:  Andrei Buliga,  Chiara Di Francescomarino,  Chiara Ghidini,  Ivan Donadello,  Fabrizio Maria Maggi
备注:  
Abstract:Counterfactual explanations suggest what should be different in the input instance to change the outcome of an AI system. When dealing with counterfactual explanations in the field of Predictive Process Monitoring, however, control flow relationships among events have to be carefully considered. A counterfactual, indeed, should not violate control flow relationships among activities (temporal background knowledege). Within the field of Explainability in Predictive Process Monitoring, there have been a series of works regarding counterfactual explanations for outcome-based predictions. However, none of them consider the inclusion of temporal background knowledge when generating these counterfactuals. In this work, we adapt state-of-the-art techniques for counterfactual generation in the domain of XAI that are based on genetic algorithms to consider a series of temporal constraints at runtime. We assume that this temporal background knowledge is given, and we adapt the fitness function, as well as the crossover and mutation operators, to maintain the satisfaction of the constraints. The proposed methods are evaluated with respect to state-of-the-art genetic algorithms for counterfactual generation and the results are presented. We showcase that the inclusion of temporal background knowledge allows the generation of counterfactuals more conformant to the temporal background knowledge, without however losing in terms of the counterfactual traditional quality metrics.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [710]
标题:  Arc2Face: A Foundation Model of Human Faces
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11641
作者:  Foivos Paraperas Papantoniou,  Alexandros Lattas,  Stylianos Moschoglou,  Jiankang Deng,  Bernhard Kainz,  Stefanos Zafeiriou
备注:  29 pages, 20 figures. Project page: this https URL
Abstract:This paper presents Arc2Face, an identity-conditioned face foundation model, which, given the ArcFace embedding of a person, can generate diverse photo-realistic images with an unparalleled degree of face similarity than existing models. Despite previous attempts to decode face recognition features into detailed images, we find that common high-resolution datasets (e.g. FFHQ) lack sufficient identities to reconstruct any subject. To that end, we meticulously upsample a significant portion of the WebFace42M database, the largest public dataset for face recognition (FR). Arc2Face builds upon a pretrained Stable Diffusion model, yet adapts it to the task of ID-to-face generation, conditioned solely on ID vectors. Deviating from recent works that combine ID with text embeddings for zero-shot personalization of text-to-image models, we emphasize on the compactness of FR features, which can fully capture the essence of the human face, as opposed to hand-crafted prompts. Crucially, text-augmented models struggle to decouple identity and text, usually necessitating some description of the given face to achieve satisfactory similarity. Arc2Face, however, only needs the discriminative features of ArcFace to guide the generation, offering a robust prior for a plethora of tasks where ID consistency is of paramount importance. As an example, we train a FR model on synthetic images from our model and achieve superior performance to existing synthetic datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [711]
标题:  An Accurate and Real-time Relative Pose Estimation from Triple  Point-line Images by Decoupling Rotation and Translation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11639
作者:  Zewen Xu,  Yijia He,  Hao Wei,  Bo Xu,  BinJian Xie,  Yihong Wu
备注:  
Abstract:Line features are valid complements for point features in man-made environments. 3D-2D constraints provided by line features have been widely used in Visual Odometry (VO) and Structure-from-Motion (SfM) systems. However, how to accurately solve three-view relative motion only with 2D observations of points and lines in real time has not been fully explored. In this paper, we propose a novel three-view pose solver based on rotation-translation decoupled estimation. First, a high-precision rotation estimation method based on normal vector coplanarity constraints that consider the uncertainty of observations is proposed, which can be solved by Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm efficiently. Second, a robust linear translation constraint that minimizes the degree of the rotation components and feature observation components in equations is elaborately designed for estimating translations accurately. Experiments on synthetic data and real-world data show that the proposed approach improves both rotation and translation accuracy compared to the classical trifocal-tensor-based method and the state-of-the-art two-view algorithm in outdoor and indoor environments.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [712]
标题:  The Value of Reward Lookahead in Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11637
作者:  Nadav Merlis,  Dorian Baudry,  Vianney Perchet
备注:  
Abstract:In reinforcement learning (RL), agents sequentially interact with changing environments while aiming to maximize the obtained rewards. Usually, rewards are observed only after acting, and so the goal is to maximize the expected cumulative reward. Yet, in many practical settings, reward information is observed in advance -- prices are observed before performing transactions; nearby traffic information is partially known; and goals are oftentimes given to agents prior to the interaction. In this work, we aim to quantifiably analyze the value of such future reward information through the lens of competitive analysis. In particular, we measure the ratio between the value of standard RL agents and that of agents with partial future-reward lookahead. We characterize the worst-case reward distribution and derive exact ratios for the worst-case reward expectations. Surprisingly, the resulting ratios relate to known quantities in offline RL and reward-free exploration. We further provide tight bounds for the ratio given the worst-case dynamics. Our results cover the full spectrum between observing the immediate rewards before acting to observing all the rewards before the interaction starts.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [713]
标题:  A restricted additive smoother for finite cell flow problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11636
作者:  S. Saberi,  A. Vogel
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we propose an adaptive geometric multigrid method for the solution of large-scale finite cell flow problems. The finite cell method seeks to circumvent the need for a boundary-conforming mesh through the embedding of the physical domain in a regular background mesh. As a result of the intersection between the physical domain and the background computational mesh, the resultant systems of equations are typically numerically ill-conditioned, rendering the appropriate treatment of cutcells a crucial aspect of the solver. To this end, we propose a smoother operator with favorable parallel properties and discuss its memory footprint and parallelization aspects. We propose three cache policies that offer a balance between cached and on-the-fly computation and discuss the optimization opportunities offered by the smoother operator. It is shown that the smoother operator, on account of its additive nature, can be replicated in parallel exactly with little communication overhead, which offers a major advantage in parallel settings as the geometric multigrid solver is consequently independent of the number of processes. The convergence and scalability of the geometric multigrid method is studied using numerical examples. It is shown that the iteration count of the solver remains bounded independent of the problem size and depth of the grid hierarchy. The solver is shown to obtain excellent weak and strong scaling using numerical benchmarks with more than 665 million degrees of freedom. The presented geometric multigrid solver is, therefore, an attractive option for the solution of large-scale finite cell problems in massively parallel high-performance computing environments.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)

**编号**: [714]
标题:  Personalized 3D Human Pose and Shape Refinement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11634
作者:  Tom Wehrbein,  Bodo Rosenhahn,  Iain Matthews,  Carsten Stoll
备注:  Accepted to 2023 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision Workshops (ICCVW)
Abstract:Recently, regression-based methods have dominated the field of 3D human pose and shape estimation. Despite their promising results, a common issue is the misalignment between predictions and image observations, often caused by minor joint rotation errors that accumulate along the kinematic chain. To address this issue, we propose to construct dense correspondences between initial human model estimates and the corresponding images that can be used to refine the initial predictions. To this end, we utilize renderings of the 3D models to predict per-pixel 2D displacements between the synthetic renderings and the RGB images. This allows us to effectively integrate and exploit appearance information of the persons. Our per-pixel displacements can be efficiently transformed to per-visible-vertex displacements and then used for 3D model refinement by minimizing a reprojection loss. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, we refine the initial 3D human mesh predictions of multiple models using different refinement procedures on 3DPW and RICH. We show that our approach not only consistently leads to better image-model alignment, but also to improved 3D accuracy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [715]
标题:  Cooperative Agri-Food Export under Minimum Quantity Commitments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11633
作者:  Luis A. Guardiola,  Behzad Hezarkhani,  Ana Meca
备注:  
Abstract:International trade can be a profitable business for agri-food communities. However, access to international markets can be costly and thus unattainable for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs). This problem is exacerbated under trade policies which require minimum quantity commitments (MQCs) on export volumes, e.g., licensing tariff rate quota (TRQ) mechanisms. We show how cooperative exporting among agri-food SMEs can tackle the barriers posed by the MQCs, and give market access to a broader range of SMEs. We formulate a class of cooperative games associated with these situations and find a gain-sharing mechanism that result in allocations in their corresponding cores. Thus, grand coalitions of cooperative exporting SMEs can form in stable manners. This allocation rule shares the export surplus only among the "essential" SME exporters, that is, the players who are sufficiently cost efficient. Thus, less cost efficient "complimentary" SMEs whose capacities are needed to maintain MQCs receive no benefit from collaborative exporting and their participation have to be altruistic. We propose two modifications to our original allocation rule to share a portion of export surplus among the complementary SMEs through taxing the essential SMEs: the first through egalitarian, and the second through revenue-based rates. We compare the performance of these allocations with the numerical examples and discuss their practical implications.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [716]
标题:  Data-driven Stabilization of Nitsche's Method
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11632
作者:  S. Saberi,  L. Zhang,  A. Vogel
备注:  
Abstract:The weak imposition of essential boundary conditions is an integral aspect of unfitted finite element methods, where the physical boundary does not in general coincide with the computational domain. In this regard, the symmetric Nitsche's method is a powerful technique that preserves the symmetry and variational consistency of the unmodified weak formulation. The stabilization parameter in Nitsche's method plays a crucial role in the stability of the resultant formulation, whose estimation is computationally intensive and dependent on the particular cut configuration using the conventional eigenvalue-based approach. In this work, we employ as model problem the finite cell method in which the need for the generation of a boundary-conforming mesh is circumvented by embedding the physical domain in a, typically regular, background mesh. We propose a data-driven estimate based on machine learning methods for the estimation of the stabilization parameter in Nitsche's method that offers an efficient constant-complexity alternative to the eigenvalue-based approach independent of the cut configuration. It is shown, using numerical benchmarks, that the proposed method can estimate the stabilization parameter accurately and is by far more computationally efficient. The data-driven estimate can be integrated into existing numerical codes with minimal modifications and thanks to the wide adoption of accelerators such as GPUs by machine learning frameworks, can be used with virtually no extra implementation cost on GPU devices, further increasing the potential for computational gains over the conventional eigenvalue-based estimate.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)

**编号**: [717]
标题:  Compositional Kronecker Context Optimization for Vision-Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11631
作者:  Kun Ding,  Xiaohui Li,  Qiang Yu,  Ying Wang,  Haojian Zhang,  Shiming Xiang
备注:  
Abstract:Context Optimization (CoOp) has emerged as a simple yet effective technique for adapting CLIP-like vision-language models to downstream image recognition tasks. Nevertheless, learning compact context with satisfactory base-to-new, domain and cross-task generalization ability while adapting to new tasks is still a challenge. To tackle such a challenge, we propose a lightweight yet generalizable approach termed Compositional Kronecker Context Optimization (CK-CoOp). Technically, the prompt's context words in CK-CoOp are learnable vectors, which are crafted by linearly combining base vectors sourced from a dictionary. These base vectors consist of a non-learnable component obtained by quantizing the weights in the token embedding layer, and a learnable component constructed by applying Kronecker product on several learnable tiny matrices. Intuitively, the compositional structure mitigates the risk of overfitting on training data by remembering more pre-trained knowledge. Meantime, the Kronecker product breaks the non-learnable restrictions of the dictionary, thereby enhancing representation ability with minimal additional parameters. Extensive experiments confirm that CK-CoOp achieves state-of-the-art performance under base-to-new, domain and cross-task generalization evaluation, but also has the metrics of fewer learnable parameters and efficient training and inference speed.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [718]
标题:  LoRA-Composer: Leveraging Low-Rank Adaptation for Multi-Concept  Customization in Training-Free Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11627
作者:  Yang Yang,  Wen Wang,  Liang Peng,  Chaotian Song,  Yao Chen,  Hengjia Li,  Xiaolong Yang,  Qinglin Lu,  Deng Cai,  Boxi Wu,  Wei Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Customization generation techniques have significantly advanced the synthesis of specific concepts across varied contexts. Multi-concept customization emerges as the challenging task within this domain. Existing approaches often rely on training a Low-Rank Adaptations (LoRA) fusion matrix of multiple LoRA to merge various concepts into a single image. However, we identify this straightforward method faces two major challenges: 1) concept confusion, which occurs when the model cannot preserve distinct individual characteristics, and 2) concept vanishing, where the model fails to generate the intended subjects. To address these issues, we introduce LoRA-Composer, a training-free framework designed for seamlessly integrating multiple LoRAs, thereby enhancing the harmony among different concepts within generated images. LoRA-Composer addresses concept vanishing through Concept Injection Constraints, enhancing concept visibility via an expanded cross-attention mechanism. To combat concept confusion, Concept Isolation Constraints are introduced, refining the self-attention computation. Furthermore, Latent Re-initialization is proposed to effectively stimulate concept-specific latent within designated regions. Our extensive testing showcases a notable enhancement in LoRA-Composer's performance compared to standard baselines, especially when eliminating the image-based conditions like canny edge or pose estimations. Code is released at this https URL\_Composer.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [719]
标题:  QEAN: Quaternion-Enhanced Attention Network for Visual Dance Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11626
作者:  Zhizhen Zhou,  Yejing Huo,  Guoheng Huang,  An Zeng,  Xuhang Chen,  Lian Huang,  Zinuo Li
备注:  Accepted by The Visual Computer Journal
Abstract:The study of music-generated dance is a novel and challenging Image generation task. It aims to input a piece of music and seed motions, then generate natural dance movements for the subsequent music. Transformer-based methods face challenges in time series prediction tasks related to human movements and music due to their struggle in capturing the nonlinear relationship and temporal aspects. This can lead to issues like joint deformation, role deviation, floating, and inconsistencies in dance movements generated in response to the music. In this paper, we propose a Quaternion-Enhanced Attention Network (QEAN) for visual dance synthesis from a quaternion perspective, which consists of a Spin Position Embedding (SPE) module and a Quaternion Rotary Attention (QRA) module. First, SPE embeds position information into self-attention in a rotational manner, leading to better learning of features of movement sequences and audio sequences, and improved understanding of the connection between music and dance. Second, QRA represents and fuses 3D motion features and audio features in the form of a series of quaternions, enabling the model to better learn the temporal coordination of music and dance under the complex temporal cycle conditions of dance generation. Finally, we conducted experiments on the dataset AIST++, and the results show that our approach achieves better and more robust performance in generating accurate, high-quality dance movements. Our source code and dataset can be available from this https URL and this https URL respectively.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM); Sound (cs.SD); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS)

**编号**: [720]
标题:  GaussNav: Gaussian Splatting for Visual Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11625
作者:  Xiaohan Lei,  Min Wang,  Wengang Zhou,  Houqiang Li
备注:  conference
Abstract:In embodied vision, Instance ImageGoal Navigation (IIN) requires an agent to locate a specific object depicted in a goal image within an unexplored environment. The primary difficulty of IIN stems from the necessity of recognizing the target object across varying viewpoints and rejecting potential distractors. Existing map-based navigation methods largely adopt the representation form of Bird's Eye View (BEV) maps, which, however, lack the representation of detailed textures in a scene. To address the above issues, we propose a new Gaussian Splatting Navigation (abbreviated as GaussNav) framework for IIN task, which constructs a novel map representation based on 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS). The proposed framework enables the agent to not only memorize the geometry and semantic information of the scene, but also retain the textural features of objects. Our GaussNav framework demonstrates a significant leap in performance, evidenced by an increase in Success weighted by Path Length (SPL) from 0.252 to 0.578 on the challenging Habitat-Matterport 3D (HM3D) dataset. Our code will be made publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [721]
标题:  Dual-Channel Multiplex Graph Neural Networks for Recommendation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11624
作者:  Xiang Li,  Chaofan Fu,  Zhongying Zhao,  Guanjie Zheng,  Chao Huang,  Junyu Dong,  Yanwei Yu
备注:  
Abstract:Efficient recommender systems play a crucial role in accurately capturing user and item attributes that mirror individual preferences. Some existing recommendation techniques have started to shift their focus towards modeling various types of interaction relations between users and items in real-world recommendation scenarios, such as clicks, marking favorites, and purchases on online shopping platforms. Nevertheless, these approaches still grapple with two significant shortcomings: (1) Insufficient modeling and exploitation of the impact of various behavior patterns formed by multiplex relations between users and items on representation learning, and (2) ignoring the effect of different relations in the behavior patterns on the target relation in recommender system scenarios. In this study, we introduce a novel recommendation framework, Dual-Channel Multiplex Graph Neural Network (DCMGNN), which addresses the aforementioned challenges. It incorporates an explicit behavior pattern representation learner to capture the behavior patterns composed of multiplex user-item interaction relations, and includes a relation chain representation learning and a relation chain-aware encoder to discover the impact of various auxiliary relations on the target relation, the dependencies between different relations, and mine the appropriate order of relations in a behavior pattern. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets demonstrate that our \model surpasses various state-of-the-art recommendation methods. It outperforms the best baselines by 10.06\% and 12.15\% on average across all datasets in terms of R@10 and N@10 respectively.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [722]
标题:  Synthesizing multi-log grasp poses
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11623
作者:  Arvid Fälldin,  Erik Wallin,  Tommy Löfstedt,  Martin Servin
备注:  
Abstract:Multi-object grasping is a challenging task. It is important for energy and cost-efficient operation of industrial crane manipulators, such as those used to collect tree logs off the forest floor and onto forest machines. In this work, we used synthetic data from physics simulations to explore how data-driven modeling can be used to infer multi-object grasp poses from images. We showed that convolutional neural networks can be trained specifically for synthesizing multi-object grasps. Using RGB-Depth images and instance segmentation masks as input, a U-Net model outputs grasp maps with corresponding grapple orientation and opening width. Given an observation of a pile of logs, the model can be used to synthesize and rate the possible grasp poses and select the most suitable one, with the possibility to respect changing operational constraints such as lift capacity and reach. When tested on previously unseen data, the proposed model found successful grasp poses with an accuracy of 95%.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [723]
标题:  Let's Focus on Neuron: Neuron-Level Supervised Fine-tuning for Large  Language Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11621
作者:  Haoyun Xu,  Runzhe Zhan,  Derek F. Wong,  Lidia S. Chao
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) are composed of neurons that exhibit various behaviors and roles, which become increasingly diversified as models scale. Recent studies have revealed that not all neurons are active across different datasets, and this sparsity correlates positively with the task-specific ability, leading to advancements in model pruning and training efficiency. Traditional fine-tuning methods engage all parameters of LLMs, which is computationally expensive and may not be necessary. In contrast, Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) approaches aim to minimize the number of trainable parameters, yet they still operate at a relatively macro scale (e.g., layer-level). We introduce Neuron-Level Fine-Tuning (NeFT), a novel approach that refines the granularity of parameter training down to the individual neuron, enabling more precise and computationally efficient model updates. The experimental results show that NeFT not only exceeded the performance of full-parameter fine-tuning and PEFT but also provided insights into the analysis of neurons.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [724]
标题:  Frontier-Based Exploration for Multi-Robot Rendezvous in  Communication-Restricted Unknown Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11617
作者:  Mauro Tellaroli,  Matteo Luperto,  Michele Antonazzi,  Nicola Basilico
备注:  
Abstract:Multi-robot rendezvous and exploration are fundamental challenges in the domain of mobile robotic systems. This paper addresses multi-robot rendezvous within an initially unknown environment where communication is only possible after the rendezvous. Traditionally, exploration has been focused on rapidly mapping the environment, often leading to suboptimal rendezvous performance in later stages. We adapt a standard frontier-based exploration technique to integrate exploration and rendezvous into a unified strategy, with a mechanism that allows robots to re-visit previously explored regions thus enhancing rendezvous opportunities. We validate our approach in 3D realistic simulations using ROS, showcasing its effectiveness in achieving faster rendezvous times compared to exploration strategies.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [725]
标题:  Multi-View Video-Based Learning: Leveraging Weak Labels for Frame-Level  Perception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11616
作者:  Vijay John,  Yasutomo Kawanishi
备注:  
Abstract:For training a video-based action recognition model that accepts multi-view video, annotating frame-level labels is tedious and difficult. However, it is relatively easy to annotate sequence-level labels. This kind of coarse annotations are called as weak labels. However, training a multi-view video-based action recognition model with weak labels for frame-level perception is challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel learning framework, where the weak labels are first used to train a multi-view video-based base model, which is subsequently used for downstream frame-level perception tasks. The base model is trained to obtain individual latent embeddings for each view in the multi-view input. For training the model using the weak labels, we propose a novel latent loss function. We also propose a model that uses the view-specific latent embeddings for downstream frame-level action recognition and detection tasks. The proposed framework is evaluated using the MM Office dataset by comparing several baseline algorithms. The results show that the proposed base model is effectively trained using weak labels and the latent embeddings help the downstream models improve accuracy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [726]
标题:  CRS-Diff: Controllable Generative Remote Sensing Foundation Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11614
作者:  Datao Tang,  Xiangyong Cao,  Xingsong Hou,  Zhongyuan Jiang,  Deyu Meng
备注:  
Abstract:The emergence of diffusion models has revolutionized the field of image generation, providing new methods for creating high-quality, high-resolution images across various applications. However, the potential of these models for generating domain-specific images, particularly remote sensing (RS) images, remains largely untapped. RS images that are notable for their high resolution, extensive coverage, and rich information content, bring new challenges that general diffusion models may not adequately address. This paper proposes CRS-Diff, a pioneering diffusion modeling framework specifically tailored for generating remote sensing imagery, leveraging the inherent advantages of diffusion models while integrating advanced control mechanisms to ensure that the imagery is not only visually clear but also enriched with geographic and temporal information. The model integrates global and local control inputs, enabling precise combinations of generation conditions to refine the generation process. A comprehensive evaluation of CRS-Diff has demonstrated its superior capability to generate RS imagery both in a single condition and multiple conditions compared with previous methods in terms of image quality and diversity.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [727]
标题:  A splitting-based KPIK method for eddy current optimal control problems  in an all-at-once approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11611
作者:  Min-Li Zeng,  Martin Stoll
备注:  18
Abstract:In this paper, we focus on efficient methods to solve discretized linear systems obtained from eddy current optimal control problems in an all-at-once approach. We construct a new low-rank matrix equation method based on a special splitting of the coefficient matrix and the Krylov-plus-inverted-Krylov (KPIK) algorithm. Firstly, we rewrite the resulting discretized linear system in a matrix-equation form. Then using the KPIK algorithm, we can obtain the low-rank approximation solution. The new method is named the splitting-based Krylov-plus-inverted-Krylov (SKPIK) method. The SKPIK method can not only solve the large and sparse discretized systems fast but also overcomes the storage problem. Theoretical results about the existence of the low-rank solutions are given. Numerical experiments are used to illustrate the performance of the new low-rank matrix equation method by compared with some existing classical efficient methods.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [728]
标题:  AGRNav: Efficient and Energy-Saving Autonomous Navigation for Air-Ground  Robots in Occlusion-Prone Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11607
作者:  Junming Wang,  Zekai Sun,  Xiuxian Guan,  Tianxiang Shen,  Zongyuan Zhang,  Tianyang Duan,  Dong Huang,  Shixiong Zhao,  Heming Cui
备注:  Accepted to ICRA 2024
Abstract:The exceptional mobility and long endurance of air-ground robots are raising interest in their usage to navigate complex environments (e.g., forests and large buildings). However, such environments often contain occluded and unknown regions, and without accurate prediction of unobserved obstacles, the movement of the air-ground robot often suffers a suboptimal trajectory under existing mapping-based and learning-based navigation methods. In this work, we present AGRNav, a novel framework designed to search for safe and energy-saving air-ground hybrid paths. AGRNav contains a lightweight semantic scene completion network (SCONet) with self-attention to enable accurate obstacle predictions by capturing contextual information and occlusion area features. The framework subsequently employs a query-based method for low-latency updates of prediction results to the grid map. Finally, based on the updated map, the hierarchical path planner efficiently searches for energy-saving paths for navigation. We validate AGRNav's performance through benchmarks in both simulated and real-world environments, demonstrating its superiority over classical and state-of-the-art methods. The open-source code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [729]
标题:  Fair Distributed Cooperative Bandit Learning on Networks for Intelligent  Internet of Things Systems (Technical Report)
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11603
作者:  Ziqun Chen,  Kechao Cai,  Jinbei Zhang,  Zhigang Yu
备注:  10 pages, 8 figures, conference technical report
Abstract:In intelligent Internet of Things (IoT) systems, edge servers within a network exchange information with their neighbors and collect data from sensors to complete delivered tasks. In this paper, we propose a multiplayer multi-armed bandit model for intelligent IoT systems to facilitate data collection and incorporate fairness considerations. In our model, we establish an effective communication protocol that helps servers cooperate with their neighbors. Then we design a distributed cooperative bandit algorithm, DC-ULCB, enabling servers to collaboratively select sensors to maximize data rates while maintaining fairness in their choices. We conduct an analysis of the reward regret and fairness regret of DC-ULCB, and prove that both regrets have logarithmic instance-dependent upper bounds. Additionally, through extensive simulations, we validate that DC-ULCB outperforms existing algorithms in maximizing reward and ensuring fairness.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [730]
标题:  Finite element method coupled with multiscale finite element method for  the non-stationary Stokes-Darcy model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11600
作者:  Yachen Hong,  Wenhan Zhang,  Lina Zhao,  Haibiao Zheng
备注:  
Abstract:In this paper, we combine the multiscale flnite element method to propose an algorithm for solving the non-stationary Stokes-Darcy model, where the permeability coefflcient in the Darcy region exhibits multiscale characteristics. Our algorithm involves two steps: first, conducting the parallel computation of multiscale basis functions in the Darcy region. Second, based on these multiscale basis functions, we employ an implicitexplicit scheme to solve the Stokes-Darcy equations. One signiflcant feature of the algorithm is that it solves problems on relatively coarse grids, thus signiflcantly reducing computational costs. Moreover, under the same coarse grid size, it exhibits higher accuracy compared to standard flnite element method. Under the assumption that the permeability coefflcient is periodic and independent of time, this paper demonstrates the stability and convergence of the algorithm. Finally, the rationality and effectiveness of the algorithm are verifled through three numerical experiments, with experimental results consistent with theoretical analysis.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [731]
标题:  Semi-Analytical Methods for Population Balance models involving  Aggregation and Breakage processes: A comparative study
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11595
作者:  Shweta,  Saddam Hussain,  Rajesh Kumar
备注:  
Abstract:Population balance models often integrate fundamental kernels, including sum, gelling and Brownian aggregation kernels. These kernels have demonstrated extensive utility across various disciplines such as aerosol physics, chemical engineering, astrophysics, pharmaceutical sciences and mathematical biology for the purpose of elucidating particle dynamics. The objective of this study is to refine the semi-analytical solutions derived from current methodologies in addressing the nonlinear aggregation and coupled aggregation-breakage population balance equation. This work presents a unique semi-analytical approach based on the homotopy analysis method (HAM) to solve pure aggregation and couple aggregation-fragmentation population balance equations, which is an integro-partial differentia equation. By decomposing the non-linear operator, we investigate how to utilize the convergence control parameter to expedite the convergence of the HAM solution towards its precise values in the proposed method.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [732]
标题:  End-to-end multi-modal product matching in fashion e-commerce
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11593
作者:  Sándor Tóth,  Stephen Wilson,  Alexia Tsoukara,  Enric Moreu,  Anton Masalovich,  Lars Roemheld
备注:  9 pages, submitted to SIGKDD
Abstract:Product matching, the task of identifying different representations of the same product for better discoverability, curation, and pricing, is a key capability for online marketplace and e-commerce companies. We present a robust multi-modal product matching system in an industry setting, where large datasets, data distribution shifts and unseen domains pose challenges. We compare different approaches and conclude that a relatively straightforward projection of pretrained image and text encoders, trained through contrastive learning, yields state-of-the-art results, while balancing cost and performance. Our solution outperforms single modality matching systems and large pretrained models, such as CLIP. Furthermore we show how a human-in-the-loop process can be combined with model-based predictions to achieve near perfect precision in a production system.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [733]
标题:  A physics-informed neural network method for the approximation of slow  invariant manifolds for the general class of stiff systems of ODEs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11591
作者:  Dimitrios G. Patsatzis,  Lucia Russo,  Constantinos Siettos
备注:  
Abstract:We present a physics-informed neural network (PINN) approach for the discovery of slow invariant manifolds (SIMs), for the most general class of fast/slow dynamical systems of ODEs. In contrast to other machine learning (ML) approaches that construct reduced order black box surrogate models using simple regression, and/or require a priori knowledge of the fast and slow variables, our approach, simultaneously decomposes the vector field into fast and slow components and provides a functional of the underlying SIM in a closed form. The decomposition is achieved by finding a transformation of the state variables to the fast and slow ones, which enables the derivation of an explicit, in terms of fast variables, SIM functional. The latter is obtained by solving a PDE corresponding to the invariance equation within the Geometric Singular Perturbation Theory (GSPT) using a single-layer feedforward neural network with symbolic differentiation. The performance of the proposed physics-informed ML framework is assessed via three benchmark problems: the Michaelis-Menten, the target mediated drug disposition (TMDD) reaction model and a fully competitive substrate-inhibitor(fCSI) mechanism. We also provide a comparison with other GPST methods, namely the quasi steady state approximation (QSSA), the partial equilibrium approximation (PEA) and CSP with one and two iterations. We show that the proposed PINN scheme provides SIM approximations, of equivalent or even higher accuracy, than those provided by QSSA, PEA and CSP, especially close to the boundaries of the underlying SIMs.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Dynamical Systems (math.DS)

**编号**: [734]
标题:  HSEmotion Team at the 6th ABAW Competition: Facial Expressions,  Valence-Arousal and Emotion Intensity Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11590
作者:  Andrey V. Savchenko
备注:  10 pages, 1 figure, 8 tables
Abstract:This article presents our results for the sixth Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-wild (ABAW) competition. To improve the trustworthiness of facial analysis, we study the possibility of using pre-trained deep models that extract reliable emotional features without the need to fine-tune the neural networks for a downstream task. In particular, we introduce several lightweight models based on MobileViT, MobileFaceNet, EfficientNet, and DDAMFN architectures trained in multi-task scenarios to recognize facial expressions, valence, and arousal on static photos. These neural networks extract frame-level features fed into a simple classifier, e.g., linear feed-forward neural network, to predict emotion intensity, compound expressions, action units, facial expressions, and valence/arousal. Experimental results for five tasks from the sixth ABAW challenge demonstrate that our approach lets us significantly improve quality metrics on validation sets compared to existing non-ensemble techniques.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [735]
标题:  UV Gaussians: Joint Learning of Mesh Deformation and Gaussian Textures  for Human Avatar Modeling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11589
作者:  Yujiao Jiang,  Qingmin Liao,  Xiaoyu Li,  Li Ma,  Qi Zhang,  Chaopeng Zhang,  Zongqing Lu,  Ying Shan
备注:  
Abstract:Reconstructing photo-realistic drivable human avatars from multi-view image sequences has been a popular and challenging topic in the field of computer vision and graphics. While existing NeRF-based methods can achieve high-quality novel view rendering of human models, both training and inference processes are time-consuming. Recent approaches have utilized 3D Gaussians to represent the human body, enabling faster training and rendering. However, they undermine the importance of the mesh guidance and directly predict Gaussians in 3D space with coarse mesh guidance. This hinders the learning procedure of the Gaussians and tends to produce blurry textures. Therefore, we propose UV Gaussians, which models the 3D human body by jointly learning mesh deformations and 2D UV-space Gaussian textures. We utilize the embedding of UV map to learn Gaussian textures in 2D space, leveraging the capabilities of powerful 2D networks to extract features. Additionally, through an independent Mesh network, we optimize pose-dependent geometric deformations, thereby guiding Gaussian rendering and significantly enhancing rendering quality. We collect and process a new dataset of human motion, which includes multi-view images, scanned models, parametric model registration, and corresponding texture maps. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art synthesis of novel view and novel pose. The code and data will be made available on the homepage this https URL once the paper is accepted.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [736]
标题:  DynoSurf: Neural Deformation-based Temporally Consistent Dynamic Surface  Reconstruction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11586
作者:  Yuxin Yao,  Siyu Ren,  Junhui Hou,  Zhi Deng,  Juyong Zhang,  Wenping Wang
备注:  
Abstract:This paper explores the problem of reconstructing temporally consistent surfaces from a 3D point cloud sequence without correspondence. To address this challenging task, we propose DynoSurf, an unsupervised learning framework integrating a template surface representation with a learnable deformation field. Specifically, we design a coarse-to-fine strategy for learning the template surface based on the deformable tetrahedron representation. Furthermore, we propose a learnable deformation representation based on the learnable control points and blending weights, which can deform the template surface non-rigidly while maintaining the consistency of the local shape. Experimental results demonstrate the significant superiority of DynoSurf over current state-of-the-art approaches, showcasing its potential as a powerful tool for dynamic mesh reconstruction. The code is publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [737]
标题:  Linguacodus: A Synergistic Framework for Transformative Code Generation  in Machine Learning Pipelines
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11585
作者:  Ekaterina Trofimova,  Emil Sataev,  Andrey E. Ustyuzhanin
备注:  
Abstract:In the ever-evolving landscape of machine learning, seamless translation of natural language descriptions into executable code remains a formidable challenge. This paper introduces Linguacodus, an innovative framework designed to tackle this challenge by deploying a dynamic pipeline that iteratively transforms natural language task descriptions into code through high-level data-shaping instructions. The core of Linguacodus is a fine-tuned large language model (LLM), empowered to evaluate diverse solutions for various problems and select the most fitting one for a given task. This paper details the fine-tuning process, and sheds light on how natural language descriptions can be translated into functional code. Linguacodus represents a substantial leap towards automated code generation, effectively bridging the gap between task descriptions and executable code. It holds great promise for advancing machine learning applications across diverse domains. Additionally, we propose an algorithm capable of transforming a natural description of an ML task into code with minimal human interaction. In extensive experiments on a vast machine learning code dataset originating from Kaggle, we showcase the effectiveness of Linguacodus. The investigations highlight its potential applications across diverse domains, emphasizing its impact on applied machine learning in various scientific fields.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [738]
标题:  OurDB: Ouroboric Domain Bridging for Multi-Target Domain Adaptive  Semantic Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11582
作者:  Seungbeom Woo,  Geonwoo Baek,  Taehoon Kim,  Jaemin Na,  Joong-won Hwang,  Wonjun Hwang
备注:  
Abstract:Multi-target domain adaptation (MTDA) for semantic segmentation poses a significant challenge, as it involves multiple target domains with varying distributions. The goal of MTDA is to minimize the domain discrepancies among a single source and multi-target domains, aiming to train a single model that excels across all target domains. Previous MTDA approaches typically employ multiple teacher architectures, where each teacher specializes in one target domain to simplify the task. However, these architectures hinder the student model from fully assimilating comprehensive knowledge from all target-specific teachers and escalate training costs with increasing target domains. In this paper, we propose an ouroboric domain bridging (OurDB) framework, offering an efficient solution to the MTDA problem using a single teacher architecture. This framework dynamically cycles through multiple target domains, aligning each domain individually to restrain the biased alignment problem, and utilizes Fisher information to minimize the forgetting of knowledge from previous target domains. We also propose a context-guided class-wise mixup (CGMix) that leverages contextual information tailored to diverse target contexts in MTDA. Experimental evaluations conducted on four urban driving datasets (i.e., GTA5, Cityscapes, IDD, and Mapillary) demonstrate the superiority of our method over existing state-of-the-art approaches.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [739]
标题:  3DGS-Calib: 3D Gaussian Splatting for Multimodal SpatioTemporal  Calibration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11577
作者:  Quentin Herau,  Moussab Bennehar,  Arthur Moreau,  Nathan Piasco,  Luis Roldao,  Dzmitry Tsishkou,  Cyrille Migniot,  Pascal Vasseur,  Cédric Demonceaux
备注:  Under review
Abstract:Reliable multimodal sensor fusion algorithms re- quire accurate spatiotemporal calibration. Recently, targetless calibration techniques based on implicit neural representations have proven to provide precise and robust results. Nevertheless, such methods are inherently slow to train given the high compu- tational overhead caused by the large number of sampled points required for volume rendering. With the recent introduction of 3D Gaussian Splatting as a faster alternative to implicit representation methods, we propose to leverage this new ren- dering approach to achieve faster multi-sensor calibration. We introduce 3DGS-Calib, a new calibration method that relies on the speed and rendering accuracy of 3D Gaussian Splatting to achieve multimodal spatiotemporal calibration that is accurate, robust, and with a substantial speed-up compared to methods relying on implicit neural representations. We demonstrate the superiority of our proposal with experimental results on sequences from KITTI-360, a widely used driving dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [740]
标题:  MISS: Memory-efficient Instance Segmentation Framework By Visual  Inductive Priors Flow Propagation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11576
作者:  Chih-Chung Hsu,  Chia-Ming Lee
备注:  
Abstract:Instance segmentation, a cornerstone task in computer vision, has wide-ranging applications in diverse industries. The advent of deep learning and artificial intelligence has underscored the criticality of training effective models, particularly in data-scarce scenarios - a concern that resonates in both academic and industrial circles. A significant impediment in this domain is the resource-intensive nature of procuring high-quality, annotated data for instance segmentation, a hurdle that amplifies the challenge of developing robust models under resource constraints. In this context, the strategic integration of a visual prior into the training dataset emerges as a potential solution to enhance congruity with the testing data distribution, consequently reducing the dependency on computational resources and the need for highly complex models. However, effectively embedding a visual prior into the learning process remains a complex endeavor. Addressing this challenge, we introduce the MISS (Memory-efficient Instance Segmentation System) framework. MISS leverages visual inductive prior flow propagation, integrating intrinsic prior knowledge from the Synergy-basketball dataset at various stages: data preprocessing, augmentation, training, and inference. Our empirical evaluations underscore the efficacy of MISS, demonstrating commendable performance in scenarios characterized by limited data availability and memory constraints.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [741]
标题:  Offline Multitask Representation Learning for Reinforcement Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11574
作者:  Haque Ishfaq,  Thanh Nguyen-Tang,  Songtao Feng,  Raman Arora,  Mengdi Wang,  Ming Yin,  Doina Precup
备注:  
Abstract:We study offline multitask representation learning in reinforcement learning (RL), where a learner is provided with an offline dataset from different tasks that share a common representation and is asked to learn the shared representation. We theoretically investigate offline multitask low-rank RL, and propose a new algorithm called MORL for offline multitask representation learning. Furthermore, we examine downstream RL in reward-free, offline and online scenarios, where a new task is introduced to the agent that shares the same representation as the upstream offline tasks. Our theoretical results demonstrate the benefits of using the learned representation from the upstream offline task instead of directly learning the representation of the low-rank model.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [742]
标题:  Just Add $100 More: Augmenting NeRF-based Pseudo-LiDAR Point Cloud for  Resolving Class-imbalance Problem
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11573
作者:  Mincheol Chang,  Siyeong Lee,  Jinkyu Kim,  Namil Kim
备注:  28 pages, 12 figures, 11 tables; Submitted to ECCV 2024
Abstract:Typical LiDAR-based 3D object detection models are trained in a supervised manner with real-world data collection, which is often imbalanced over classes (or long-tailed). To deal with it, augmenting minority-class examples by sampling ground truth (GT) LiDAR points from a database and pasting them into a scene of interest is often used, but challenges still remain: inflexibility in locating GT samples and limited sample diversity. In this work, we propose to leverage pseudo-LiDAR point clouds generated (at a low cost) from videos capturing a surround view of miniatures or real-world objects of minor classes. Our method, called Pseudo Ground Truth Augmentation (PGT-Aug), consists of three main steps: (i) volumetric 3D instance reconstruction using a 2D-to-3D view synthesis model, (ii) object-level domain alignment with LiDAR intensity estimation and (iii) a hybrid context-aware placement method from ground and map information. We demonstrate the superiority and generality of our method through performance improvements in extensive experiments conducted on three popular benchmarks, i.e., nuScenes, KITTI, and Lyft, especially for the datasets with large domain gaps captured by different LiDAR configurations. Our code and data will be publicly available upon publication.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [743]
标题:  Augment Before Copy-Paste: Data and Memory Efficiency-Oriented Instance  Segmentation Framework for Sport-scenes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11572
作者:  Chih-Chung Hsu,  Chia-Ming Lee,  Ming-Shyen Wu
备注:  
Abstract:Instance segmentation is a fundamental task in computer vision with broad applications across various industries. In recent years, with the proliferation of deep learning and artificial intelligence applications, how to train effective models with limited data has become a pressing issue for both academia and industry. In the Visual Inductive Priors challenge (VIPriors2023), participants must train a model capable of precisely locating individuals on a basketball court, all while working with limited data and without the use of transfer learning or pre-trained models. We propose Memory effIciency inStance Segmentation framework based on visual inductive prior flow propagation that effectively incorporates inherent prior information from the dataset into both the data preprocessing and data augmentation stages, as well as the inference phase. Our team (ACVLAB) experiments demonstrate that our model achieves promising performance (0.509 AP@0.50:0.95) even under limited data and memory constraints.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [744]
标题:  LogicalDefender: Discovering, Extracting, and Utilizing Common-Sense  Knowledge
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11570
作者:  Yuhe Liu,  Mengxue Kang,  Zengchang Qin,  Xiangxiang Chu
备注:  
Abstract:Large text-to-image models have achieved astonishing performance in synthesizing diverse and high-quality images guided by texts. With detail-oriented conditioning control, even finer-grained spatial control can be achieved. However, some generated images still appear unreasonable, even with plentiful object features and a harmonious style. In this paper, we delve into the underlying causes and find that deep-level logical information, serving as common-sense knowledge, plays a significant role in understanding and processing images. Nonetheless, almost all models have neglected the importance of logical relations in images, resulting in poor performance in this aspect. Following this observation, we propose LogicalDefender, which combines images with the logical knowledge already summarized by humans in text. This encourages models to learn logical knowledge faster and better, and concurrently, extracts the widely applicable logical knowledge from both images and human knowledge. Experiments show that our model has achieved better logical performance, and the extracted logical knowledge can be effectively applied to other scenarios.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [745]
标题:  EffiVED:Efficient Video Editing via Text-instruction Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11568
作者:  Zhenghao Zhang,  Zuozhuo Dai,  Long Qin,  Weizhi Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Large-scale text-to-video models have shown remarkable abilities, but their direct application in video editing remains challenging due to limited available datasets. Current video editing methods commonly require per-video fine-tuning of diffusion models or specific inversion optimization to ensure high-fidelity edits. In this paper, we introduce EffiVED, an efficient diffusion-based model that directly supports instruction-guided video editing. To achieve this, we present two efficient workflows to gather video editing pairs, utilizing augmentation and fundamental vision-language techniques. These workflows transform vast image editing datasets and open-world videos into a high-quality dataset for training EffiVED. Experimental results reveal that EffiVED not only generates high-quality editing videos but also executes rapidly. Finally, we demonstrate that our data collection method significantly improves editing performance and can potentially tackle the scarcity of video editing data. The datasets will be made publicly available upon publication.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [746]
标题:  R2SNet: Scalable Domain Adaptation for Object Detection in Cloud-Based  Robots Ecosystems via Proposal Refinement
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11567
作者:  Michele Antonazzi,  Matteo Luperto,  N. Alberto Borghese,  Nicola Basilico
备注:  
Abstract:We introduce a novel approach for scalable domain adaptation in cloud robotics scenarios where robots rely on third-party AI inference services powered by large pre-trained deep neural networks. Our method is based on a downstream proposal-refinement stage running locally on the robots, exploiting a new lightweight DNN architecture, R2SNet. This architecture aims to mitigate performance degradation from domain shifts by adapting the object detection process to the target environment, focusing on relabeling, rescoring, and suppression of bounding-box proposals. Our method allows for local execution on robots, addressing the scalability challenges of domain adaptation without incurring significant computational costs. Real-world results on mobile service robots performing door detection show the effectiveness of the proposed method in achieving scalable domain adaptation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [747]
标题:  Advancing Neuromorphic Computing: Mixed-Signal Design Techniques  Leveraging Brain Code Units and Fundamental Code Units
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11563
作者:  Murat Isik,  Sols Miziev,  Wiktoria Pawlak,  Newton Howard
备注:  Accepted at 2024 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks
Abstract:This paper introduces a groundbreaking digital neuromorphic architecture that innovatively integrates Brain Code Unit (BCU) and Fundamental Code Unit (FCU) using mixedsignal design methodologies. Leveraging open-source datasets and the latest advances in materials science, our research focuses on enhancing the computational efficiency, accuracy, and adaptability of neuromorphic systems. The core of our approach lies in harmonizing the precision and scalability of digital systems with the robustness and energy efficiency of analog processing. Through experimentation, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our system across various metrics. The BCU achieved an accuracy of 88.0% and a power efficiency of 20.0 GOP/s/W, while the FCU recorded an accuracy of 86.5% and a power efficiency of 18.5 GOP/s/W. Our mixed-signal design approach significantly improved latency and throughput, achieving a latency as low as 0.75 ms and throughput up to 213 TOP/s. These results firmly establish the potential of our architecture in neuromorphic computing, providing a solid foundation for future developments in this domain. Our study underscores the feasibility of mixedsignal neuromorphic systems and their promise in advancing the field, particularly in applications requiring high efficiency and adaptability
Subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)

**编号**: [748]
标题:  Learning Unified Reference Representation for Unsupervised Multi-class  Anomaly Detection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11561
作者:  Liren He,  Zhengkai Jiang,  Jinlong Peng,  Liang Liu,  Qiangang Du,  Xiaobin Hu,  Wenbing Zhu,  Mingmin Chi,  Yabiao Wang,  Chengjie Wang
备注:  
Abstract:In the field of multi-class anomaly detection, reconstruction-based methods derived from single-class anomaly detection face the well-known challenge of ``learning shortcuts'', wherein the model fails to learn the patterns of normal samples as it should, opting instead for shortcuts such as identity mapping or artificial noise elimination. Consequently, the model becomes unable to reconstruct genuine anomalies as normal instances, resulting in a failure of anomaly detection. To counter this issue, we present a novel unified feature reconstruction-based anomaly detection framework termed RLR (Reconstruct features from a Learnable Reference representation). Unlike previous methods, RLR utilizes learnable reference representations to compel the model to learn normal feature patterns explicitly, thereby prevents the model from succumbing to the ``learning shortcuts'' issue. Additionally, RLR incorporates locality constraints into the learnable reference to facilitate more effective normal pattern capture and utilizes a masked learnable key attention mechanism to enhance robustness. Evaluation of RLR on the 15-category MVTec-AD dataset and the 12-category VisA dataset shows superior performance compared to state-of-the-art methods under the unified setting. The code of RLR will be publicly available.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [749]
标题:  Reinforcement Learning with Token-level Feedback for Controllable Text  Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11558
作者:  Wendi Li,  Wei Wei,  Kaihe Xu,  Wenfeng Xie,  Dangyang Chen,  Yu Cheng
备注:  Accepted to NAACL 2024 Findings
Abstract:To meet the requirements of real-world applications, it is essential to control generations of large language models (LLMs). Prior research has tried to introduce reinforcement learning (RL) into controllable text generation while most existing methods suffer from overfitting issues (finetuning-based methods) or semantic collapse (post-processing methods). However, current RL methods are generally guided by coarse-grained (sentence/paragraph-level) feedback, which may lead to suboptimal performance owing to semantic twists or progressions within sentences. To tackle that, we propose a novel reinforcement learning algorithm named TOLE which formulates TOken-LEvel rewards for controllable text generation, and employs a "first-quantize-then-noise" paradigm to enhance the robustness of the RL algorithm.Furthermore, TOLE can be flexibly extended to multiple constraints with little computational expense. Experimental results show that our algorithm can achieve superior performance on both single-attribute and multi-attribute control tasks. We have released our codes at this https URL
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [750]
标题:  LLM^3:Large Language Model-based Task and Motion Planning with Motion  Failure Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11552
作者:  Shu Wang,  Muzhi Han,  Ziyuan Jiao,  Zeyu Zhang,  Ying Nian Wu,  Song-Chun Zhu,  Hangxin Liu
备注:  Submitted to IROS 2024. Codes available: this https URL
Abstract:Conventional Task and Motion Planning (TAMP) approaches rely on manually crafted interfaces connecting symbolic task planning with continuous motion generation. These domain-specific and labor-intensive modules are limited in addressing emerging tasks in real-world settings. Here, we present LLM^3, a novel Large Language Model (LLM)-based TAMP framework featuring a domain-independent interface. Specifically, we leverage the powerful reasoning and planning capabilities of pre-trained LLMs to propose symbolic action sequences and select continuous action parameters for motion planning. Crucially, LLM^3 incorporates motion planning feed- back through prompting, allowing the LLM to iteratively refine its proposals by reasoning about motion failure. Consequently, LLM^3 interfaces between task planning and motion planning, alleviating the intricate design process of handling domain- specific messages between them. Through a series of simulations in a box-packing domain, we quantitatively demonstrate the effectiveness of LLM^3 in solving TAMP problems and the efficiency in selecting action parameters. Ablation studies un- derscore the significant contribution of motion failure reasoning to the success of LLM^3. Furthermore, we conduct qualitative experiments on a physical manipulator, demonstrating the practical applicability of our approach in real-world settings.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [751]
标题:  New Constructions of Reversible DNA Codes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11551
作者:  Xueyan Chen,  Whan-Hyuk Choi,  Hongwei Liu
备注:  
Abstract:DNA codes have many applications, such as in data storage, DNA computing, etc. Good DNA codes have large sizes and satisfy some certain constraints. In this paper, we present a new construction method for reversible DNA codes. We show that the DNA codes obtained using our construction method can satisfy some desired constraints and the lower bounds of the sizes of some DNA codes are better than the known results. We also give new lower bounds on the sizes of some DNA codes of lengths $80$, $96$ and $160$ for some fixed Hamming distance $d$.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [752]
标题:  TARN-VIST: Topic Aware Reinforcement Network for Visual Storytelling
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11550
作者:  Weiran Chen,  Xin Li,  Jiaqi Su,  Guiqian Zhu,  Ying Li,  Yi Ji,  Chunping Liu
备注:  
Abstract:As a cross-modal task, visual storytelling aims to generate a story for an ordered image sequence automatically. Different from the image captioning task, visual storytelling requires not only modeling the relationships between objects in the image but also mining the connections between adjacent images. Recent approaches primarily utilize either end-to-end frameworks or multi-stage frameworks to generate relevant stories, but they usually overlook latent topic information. In this paper, in order to generate a more coherent and relevant story, we propose a novel method, Topic Aware Reinforcement Network for VIsual StoryTelling (TARN-VIST). In particular, we pre-extracted the topic information of stories from both visual and linguistic perspectives. Then we apply two topic-consistent reinforcement learning rewards to identify the discrepancy between the generated story and the human-labeled story so as to refine the whole generation process. Extensive experimental results on the VIST dataset and human evaluation demonstrate that our proposed model outperforms most of the competitive models across multiple evaluation metrics.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [753]
标题:  Boosting Continual Learning of Vision-Language Models via  Mixture-of-Experts Adapters
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11549
作者:  Jiazuo Yu,  Yunzhi Zhuge,  Lu Zhang,  Dong Wang,  Huchuan Lu,  You He
备注:  This work is accepted by CVPR2024. More modifications may be performed
Abstract:Continual learning can empower vision-language models to continuously acquire new knowledge, without the need for access to the entire historical dataset. However, mitigating the performance degradation in large-scale models is non-trivial due to (i) parameter shifts throughout lifelong learning and (ii) significant computational burdens associated with full-model tuning. In this work, we present a parameter-efficient continual learning framework to alleviate long-term forgetting in incremental learning with vision-language models. Our approach involves the dynamic expansion of a pre-trained CLIP model, through the integration of Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) adapters in response to new tasks. To preserve the zero-shot recognition capability of vision-language models, we further introduce a Distribution Discriminative Auto-Selector (DDAS) that automatically routes in-distribution and out-of-distribution inputs to the MoE Adapter and the original CLIP, respectively. Through extensive experiments across various settings, our proposed method consistently outperforms previous state-of-the-art approaches while concurrently reducing parameter training burdens by 60%. Our code locates at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [754]
标题:  First-order factors of linear Mahler operators
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11545
作者:  Frédéric Chyzak (MATHEXP),  Thomas Dreyfus (IMB),  Philippe Dumas (MATHEXP),  Marc Mezzarobba (LIX)
备注:  Dedicated to the memory of Marko Petkov\v{s}ek
Abstract:We develop and compare two algorithms for computing first-order right-hand factors in the ring of linear Mahler operators$\ell_r M^r + \dots + \ell_1 M + \ell_0$where $\ell_0, \dots, \ell_r$ are polynomials in~$x$ and $Mx = x^b M$ for some integer $b \geq 2$. In other words, we give algorithms for finding all formal infinite product solutions of linear functional equations$\ell_r(x) f(x^{b^r}) + \dots + \ell_1(x) f(x^b) + \ell_0(x) f(x) = 0$. The first of our algorithms is adapted from Petkovšek's classical algorithm forthe analogous problem in the case of linear recurrences. The second one proceeds by computing a basis of generalized power series solutions of the functional equation and by using Hermite-Pad{é} approximants to detect those linear combinations of the solutions that correspond to first-order factors. We present implementations of both algorithms and discuss their use in combination with criteria from the literature to prove the differential transcendence of power series solutions of Mahler equations.
Subjects: Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Number Theory (math.NT); Rings and Algebras (math.RA)

**编号**: [755]
标题:  RL en Markov Games with Independent Function Approximation: Improved  Sample Complexity Bound under the Local Access Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11544
作者:  Junyi Fan,  Yuxuan Han,  Jialin Zeng,  Jian-Feng Cai,  Yang Wang,  Yang Xiang,  Jiheng Zhang
备注:  Accepted at the 27th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS 2024)
Abstract:Efficiently learning equilibria with large state and action spaces in general-sum Markov games while overcoming the curse of multi-agency is a challenging problem. Recent works have attempted to solve this problem by employing independent linear function classes to approximate the marginal $Q$-value for each agent. However, existing sample complexity bounds under such a framework have a suboptimal dependency on the desired accuracy $\varepsilon$ or the action space. In this work, we introduce a new algorithm, Lin-Confident-FTRL, for learning coarse correlated equilibria (CCE) with local access to the simulator, i.e., one can interact with the underlying environment on the visited states. Up to a logarithmic dependence on the size of the state space, Lin-Confident-FTRL learns $\epsilon$-CCE with a provable optimal accuracy bound $O(\epsilon^{-2})$ and gets rids of the linear dependency on the action space, while scaling polynomially with relevant problem parameters (such as the number of agents and time horizon). Moreover, our analysis of Linear-Confident-FTRL generalizes the virtual policy iteration technique in the single-agent local planning literature, which yields a new computationally efficient algorithm with a tighter sample complexity bound when assuming random access to the simulator.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [756]
标题:  Topology Data Analysis-based Error Detection for Semantic Image  Transmission with Incremental Knowledge-based HARQ
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11542
作者:  Fei Ni,  Rongpeng Li,  Zhifeng Zhao,  Honggang Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:Semantic communication (SemCom) aims to achieve high fidelity information delivery under low communication consumption by only guaranteeing semantic accuracy. Nevertheless, semantic communication still suffers from unexpected channel volatility and thus developing a re-transmission mechanism (e.g., hybrid automatic repeat request [HARQ]) is indispensable. In that regard, instead of discarding previously transmitted information, the incremental knowledge-based HARQ (IK-HARQ) is deemed as a more effective mechanism that could sufficiently utilize the information semantics. However, considering the possible existence of semantic ambiguity in image transmission, a simple bit-level cyclic redundancy check (CRC) might compromise the performance of IK-HARQ. Therefore, it emerges a strong incentive to revolutionize the CRC mechanism, so as to reap the benefits of both SemCom and HARQ. In this paper, built on top of swin transformer-based joint source-channel coding (JSCC) and IK-HARQ, we propose a semantic image transmission framework SC-TDA-HARQ. In particular, different from the conventional CRC, we introduce a topological data analysis (TDA)-based error detection method, which capably digs out the inner topological and geometric information of images, so as to capture semantic information and determine the necessity for re-transmission. Extensive numerical results validate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed SC-TDA-HARQ framework, especially under the limited bandwidth condition, and manifest the superiority of TDA-based error detection method in image transmission.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [757]
标题:  Hierarchical Spatial Proximity Reasoning for Vision-and-Language  Navigation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11541
作者:  Ming Xu,  Zilong Xie
备注:  
Abstract:Most Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) algorithms tend to make decision errors, primarily due to a lack of visual common sense and insufficient reasoning capabilities. To address this issue, this paper proposes a Hierarchical Spatial Proximity Reasoning (HSPR) model. Firstly, we design a Scene Understanding Auxiliary Task (SUAT) to assist the agent in constructing a knowledge base of hierarchical spatial proximity for reasoning navigation. Specifically, this task utilizes panoramic views and object features to identify regions in the navigation environment and uncover the adjacency relationships between regions, objects, and region-object pairs. Secondly, we dynamically construct a semantic topological map through agent-environment interactions and propose a Multi-step Reasoning Navigation Algorithm (MRNA) based on the map. This algorithm continuously plans various feasible paths from one region to another, utilizing the constructed proximity knowledge base, enabling more efficient exploration. Additionally, we introduce a Proximity Adaptive Attention Module (PAAM) and Residual Fusion Method (RFM) to enable the model to obtain more accurate navigation decision confidence. Finally, we conduct experiments on publicly available datasets including REVERIE, SOON, R2R, and R4R to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [758]
标题:  On the Integration of Spectrum-Based Fault Localization Tools into IDEs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11538
作者:  Attila Szatmári,  Qusay Idrees Sarhan,  Gergő Balogh,  Péter Attila Soha,  Árpád Beszédes
备注:  6 pages
Abstract:Spectrum-Based Fault Localization (SBFL) is a technique to be used during debugging, the premise of which is that, based on the test case outcomes and code coverage, faulty code elements can be automatically detected. SBFL is popular among researchers because it is lightweight and easy to implement, and there is a lot of potential in it when it comes to research that aims to improve its effectiveness. Despite this, the technique cannot be found in contemporary development and debugging tools, only a handful of research prototypes are available. Reasons for this can be multiple, including the algortihms' sub-optimal effectiveness and other technical weaknesses. But, also the lack of clear functional and non-functional requirements for such a tool, either standalone or integrated into IDEs. In this paper, we attempt to provide such a list in form of recommendations, based on surveying the most popular SBFL tools and on our own researchers' and tool builders' experience.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [759]
标题:  Semantic Prompting with Image-Token for Continual Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11537
作者:  Jisu Han,  Jaemin Na,  Wonjun Hwang
备注:  
Abstract:Continual learning aims to refine model parameters for new tasks while retaining knowledge from previous tasks. Recently, prompt-based learning has emerged to leverage pre-trained models to be prompted to learn subsequent tasks without the reliance on the rehearsal buffer. Although this approach has demonstrated outstanding results, existing methods depend on preceding task-selection process to choose appropriate prompts. However, imperfectness in task-selection may lead to negative impacts on the performance particularly in the scenarios where the number of tasks is large or task distributions are imbalanced. To address this issue, we introduce I-Prompt, a task-agnostic approach focuses on the visual semantic information of image tokens to eliminate task prediction. Our method consists of semantic prompt matching, which determines prompts based on similarities between tokens, and image token-level prompting, which applies prompts directly to image tokens in the intermediate layers. Consequently, our method achieves competitive performance on four benchmarks while significantly reducing training time compared to state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, we demonstrate the superiority of our method across various scenarios through extensive experiments.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [760]
标题:  OCR is All you need: Importing Multi-Modality into Image-based Defect  Detection System
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11536
作者:  Chih-Chung Hsu,  Chia-Ming Lee,  Chun-Hung Sun,  Kuang-Ming Wu
备注:  
Abstract:Automatic optical inspection (AOI) plays a pivotal role in the manufacturing process, predominantly leveraging high-resolution imaging instruments for scanning purposes. It detects anomalies by analyzing image textures or patterns, making it an essential tool in industrial manufacturing and quality control. Despite its importance, the deployment of models for AOI often faces challenges. These include limited sample sizes, which hinder effective feature learning, variations among source domains, and sensitivities to changes in lighting and camera positions during imaging. These factors collectively compromise the accuracy of model predictions. Traditional AOI often fails to capitalize on the rich mechanism-parameter information from machines or inside images, including statistical parameters, which typically benefit AOI classification. To address this, we introduce an external modality-guided data mining framework, primarily rooted in optical character recognition (OCR), to extract statistical features from images as a second modality to enhance performance, termed OANet (Ocr-Aoi-Net). A key aspect of our approach is the alignment of external modality features, extracted using a single modality-aware model, with image features encoded by a convolutional neural network. This synergy enables a more refined fusion of semantic representations from different modalities. We further introduce feature refinement and a gating function in our OANet to optimize the combination of these features, enhancing inference and decision-making capabilities. Experimental outcomes show that our methodology considerably boosts the recall rate of the defect detection model and maintains high robustness even in challenging scenarios.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [761]
标题:  EchoReel: Enhancing Action Generation of Existing Video Diffusion Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11535
作者:  Jianzhi liu,  Junchen Zhu,  Lianli Gao,  Jingkuan Song
备注:  22 pages, 10 figures
Abstract:Recent large-scale video datasets have facilitated the generation of diverse open-domain videos of Video Diffusion Models (VDMs). Nonetheless, the efficacy of VDMs in assimilating complex knowledge from these datasets remains constrained by their inherent scale, leading to suboptimal comprehension and synthesis of numerous actions. In this paper, we introduce EchoReel, a novel approach to augment the capability of VDMs in generating intricate actions by emulating motions from pre-existing videos, which are readily accessible from databases or online repositories. EchoReel seamlessly integrates with existing VDMs, enhancing their ability to produce realistic motions without compromising their fundamental capabilities. Specifically, the Action Prism (AP), is introduced to distill motion information from reference videos, which requires training on only a small dataset. Leveraging the knowledge from pre-trained VDMs, EchoReel incorporates new action features into VDMs through the additional layers, eliminating the need for any further fine-tuning of untrained actions. Extensive experiments demonstrate that EchoReel is not merely replicating the whole content from references, and it significantly improves the generation of realistic actions, even in situations where existing VDMs might directly fail.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [762]
标题:  Continual Forgetting for Pre-trained Vision Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11530
作者:  Hongbo Zhao,  Bolin Ni,  Haochen Wang,  Junsong Fan,  Fei Zhu,  Yuxi Wang,  Yuntao Chen,  Gaofeng Meng,  Zhaoxiang Zhang
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:For privacy and security concerns, the need to erase unwanted information from pre-trained vision models is becoming evident nowadays. In real-world scenarios, erasure requests originate at any time from both users and model owners. These requests usually form a sequence. Therefore, under such a setting, selective information is expected to be continuously removed from a pre-trained model while maintaining the rest. We define this problem as continual forgetting and identify two key challenges. (i) For unwanted knowledge, efficient and effective deleting is crucial. (ii) For remaining knowledge, the impact brought by the forgetting procedure should be minimal. To address them, we propose Group Sparse LoRA (GS-LoRA). Specifically, towards (i), we use LoRA modules to fine-tune the FFN layers in Transformer blocks for each forgetting task independently, and towards (ii), a simple group sparse regularization is adopted, enabling automatic selection of specific LoRA groups and zeroing out the others. GS-LoRA is effective, parameter-efficient, data-efficient, and easy to implement. We conduct extensive experiments on face recognition, object detection and image classification and demonstrate that GS-LoRA manages to forget specific classes with minimal impact on other classes. Codes will be released on \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [763]
标题:  Video Object Segmentation with Dynamic Query Modulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11529
作者:  Hantao Zhou,  Runze Hu,  Xiu Li
备注:  Accepted by ICME2024
Abstract:Storing intermediate frame segmentations as memory for long-range context modeling, spatial-temporal memory-based methods have recently showcased impressive results in semi-supervised video object segmentation (SVOS). However, these methods face two key limitations: 1) relying on non-local pixel-level matching to read memory, resulting in noisy retrieved features for segmentation; 2) segmenting each object independently without interaction. These shortcomings make the memory-based methods struggle in similar object and multi-object segmentation. To address these issues, we propose a query modulation method, termed QMVOS. This method summarizes object features into dynamic queries and then treats them as dynamic filters for mask prediction, thereby providing high-level descriptions and object-level perception for the model. Efficient and effective multi-object interactions are realized through inter-query attention. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can bring significant improvements to the memory-based SVOS method and achieve competitive performance on standard SVOS benchmarks. The code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [764]
标题:  LOOPer: A Learned Automatic Code Optimizer For Polyhedral Compilers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11522
作者:  Massinissa Merouani,  Khaled Afif Boudaoud,  Iheb Nassim Aouadj,  Nassim Tchoulak,  Islam Kara Bernou,  Hamza Benyamina,  Fatima Benbouzid-Si Tayeb,  Karima Benatchba,  Hugh Leather,  Riyadh Baghdadi
备注:  
Abstract:While polyhedral compilers have shown success in implementing advanced code transformations, they still have challenges in selecting the most profitable transformations that lead to the best speedups. This has motivated the use of machine learning to build cost models to guide the search for polyhedral optimizations. State-of-the-art polyhedral compilers have demonstrated a viable proof-of-concept of this approach. While such a proof-of-concept has shown promise, it still has significant limitations. State-of-the-art polyhedral compilers that use a deep-learning cost model only support a small subset of affine transformations, limiting their ability to apply complex code transformations. They also only support simple programs that have a single loop nest and a rectangular iteration domain, limiting their applicability to many programs. These limitations significantly impact the generality of such compilers and autoschedulers and put into question the whole approach. In this paper, we introduce LOOPer, the first polyhedral autoscheduler that uses a deep-learning based cost model and covers a large set of affine transformations and programs. It supports the exploration of a large set of affine transformations, allowing the application of complex sequences of polyhedral transformations. It also supports the optimization of programs with multiple loop nests and with rectangular and non-rectangular iteration domains, allowing the optimization of an extensive set of programs. We implement and evaluate LOOPer and show that it achieves speedups over the state-of-the-art. On the Polybench benchmark, LOOPer achieves a geometric mean speedup of 1.59x over Tiramisu. LOOPer also achieves competitive speedups with a geometric mean speedup of 1.34x over Pluto, a state-of-the-art polyhedral compiler that does not use a machine-learning based cost model.
Subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [765]
标题:  State-Separated SARSA: A Practical Sequential Decision-Making Algorithm  with Recovering Rewards
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11520
作者:  Yuto Tanimoto,  Kenji Fukumizu
备注:  
Abstract:While many multi-armed bandit algorithms assume that rewards for all arms are constant across rounds, this assumption does not hold in many real-world scenarios. This paper considers the setting of recovering bandits (Pike-Burke & Grunewalder, 2019), where the reward depends on the number of rounds elapsed since the last time an arm was pulled. We propose a new reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm tailored to this setting, named the State-Separate SARSA (SS-SARSA) algorithm, which treats rounds as states. The SS-SARSA algorithm achieves efficient learning by reducing the number of state combinations required for Q-learning/SARSA, which often suffers from combinatorial issues for large-scale RL problems. Additionally, it makes minimal assumptions about the reward structure and offers lower computational complexity. Furthermore, we prove asymptotic convergence to an optimal policy under mild assumptions. Simulation studies demonstrate the superior performance of our algorithm across various settings.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [766]
标题:  Efficient and Privacy-Preserving Federated Learning based on Full  Homomorphic Encryption
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11519
作者:  Yuqi Guo,  Lin Li,  Zhongxiang Zheng,  Hanrui Yun,  Ruoyan Zhang,  Xiaolin Chang,  Zhixuan Gao
备注:  
Abstract:Since the first theoretically feasible full homomorphic encryption (FHE) scheme was proposed in 2009, great progress has been achieved. These improvements have made FHE schemes come off the paper and become quite useful in solving some practical problems. In this paper, we propose a set of novel Federated Learning Schemes by utilizing the latest homomorphic encryption technologies, so as to improve the security, functionality and practicality at the same time. Comparisons have been given in four practical data sets separately from medical, business, biometric and financial fields, covering both horizontal and vertical federated learning scenarios. The experiment results show that our scheme achieves significant improvements in security, efficiency and practicality, compared with classical horizontal and vertical federated learning schemes.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [767]
标题:  SSAP: A Shape-Sensitive Adversarial Patch for Comprehensive Disruption  of Monocular Depth Estimation in Autonomous Navigation Applications
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11515
作者:  Amira Guesmi,  Muhammad Abdullah Hanif,  Ihsen Alouani,  Bassem Ouni,  Muhammad Shafique
备注:  
Abstract:Monocular depth estimation (MDE) has advanced significantly, primarily through the integration of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and more recently, Transformers. However, concerns about their susceptibility to adversarial attacks have emerged, especially in safety-critical domains like autonomous driving and robotic navigation. Existing approaches for assessing CNN-based depth prediction methods have fallen short in inducing comprehensive disruptions to the vision system, often limited to specific local areas. In this paper, we introduce SSAP (Shape-Sensitive Adversarial Patch), a novel approach designed to comprehensively disrupt monocular depth estimation (MDE) in autonomous navigation applications. Our patch is crafted to selectively undermine MDE in two distinct ways: by distorting estimated distances or by creating the illusion of an object disappearing from the system's perspective. Notably, our patch is shape-sensitive, meaning it considers the specific shape and scale of the target object, thereby extending its influence beyond immediate proximity. Furthermore, our patch is trained to effectively address different scales and distances from the camera. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach induces a mean depth estimation error surpassing 0.5, impacting up to 99% of the targeted region for CNN-based MDE models. Additionally, we investigate the vulnerability of Transformer-based MDE models to patch-based attacks, revealing that SSAP yields a significant error of 0.59 and exerts substantial influence over 99% of the target region on these models.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [768]
标题:  Visual Preference Inference: An Image Sequence-Based Preference  Reasoning in Tabletop Object Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11513
作者:  Joonhyung Lee,  Sangbeom Park,  Yongin Kwon,  Jemin Lee,  Minwook Ahn,  Sungjoon Choi
备注:  8 pages
Abstract:In robotic object manipulation, human preferences can often be influenced by the visual attributes of objects, such as color and shape. These properties play a crucial role in operating a robot to interact with objects and align with human intention. In this paper, we focus on the problem of inferring underlying human preferences from a sequence of raw visual observations in tabletop manipulation environments with a variety of object types, named Visual Preference Inference (VPI). To facilitate visual reasoning in the context of manipulation, we introduce the Chain-of-Visual-Residuals (CoVR) method. CoVR employs a prompting mechanism that describes the difference between the consecutive images (i.e., visual residuals) and incorporates such texts with a sequence of images to infer the user's preference. This approach significantly enhances the ability to understand and adapt to dynamic changes in its visual environment during manipulation tasks. Furthermore, we incorporate such texts along with a sequence of images to infer the user's preferences. Our method outperforms baseline methods in terms of extracting human preferences from visual sequences in both simulation and real-world environments. Code and videos are available at: \href{this https URL}{this https URL}
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [769]
标题:  Sim-to-Real Grasp Detection with Global-to-Local RGB-D Adaptation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11511
作者:  Haoxiang Ma,  Ran Qin,  Modi shi,  Boyang Gao,  Di Huang
备注:  Accepted at ICRA 2024
Abstract:This paper focuses on the sim-to-real issue of RGB-D grasp detection and formulates it as a domain adaptation problem. In this case, we present a global-to-local method to address hybrid domain gaps in RGB and depth data and insufficient multi-modal feature alignment. First, a self-supervised rotation pre-training strategy is adopted to deliver robust initialization for RGB and depth networks. We then propose a global-to-local alignment pipeline with individual global domain classifiers for scene features of RGB and depth images as well as a local one specifically working for grasp features in the two modalities. In particular, we propose a grasp prototype adaptation module, which aims to facilitate fine-grained local feature alignment by dynamically updating and matching the grasp prototypes from the simulation and real-world scenarios throughout the training process. Due to such designs, the proposed method substantially reduces the domain shift and thus leads to consistent performance improvements. Extensive experiments are conducted on the GraspNet-Planar benchmark and physical environment, and superior results are achieved which demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [770]
标题:  GenFlow: Generalizable Recurrent Flow for 6D Pose Refinement of Novel  Objects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11510
作者:  Sungphill Moon,  Hyeontae Son,  Dongcheol Hur,  Sangwook Kim
备注:  
Abstract:Despite the progress of learning-based methods for 6D object pose estimation, the trade-off between accuracy and scalability for novel objects still exists. Specifically, previous methods for novel objects do not make good use of the target object's 3D shape information since they focus on generalization by processing the shape indirectly, making them less effective. We present GenFlow, an approach that enables both accuracy and generalization to novel objects with the guidance of the target object's shape. Our method predicts optical flow between the rendered image and the observed image and refines the 6D pose iteratively. It boosts the performance by a constraint of the 3D shape and the generalizable geometric knowledge learned from an end-to-end differentiable system. We further improve our model by designing a cascade network architecture to exploit the multi-scale correlations and coarse-to-fine refinement. GenFlow ranked first on the unseen object pose estimation benchmarks in both the RGB and RGB-D cases. It also achieves performance competitive with existing state-of-the-art methods for the seen object pose estimation without any fine-tuning.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [771]
标题:  DEE: Dual-stage Explainable Evaluation Method for Text Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11509
作者:  Shenyu Zhang,  Yu Li,  Rui Wu,  Xiutian Huang,  Yongrui Chen,  Wenhao Xu,  Guilin Qi
备注:  Accepted by DASFAA 2024
Abstract:Automatic methods for evaluating machine-generated texts hold significant importance due to the expanding applications of generative systems. Conventional methods tend to grapple with a lack of explainability, issuing a solitary numerical score to signify the assessment outcome. Recent advancements have sought to mitigate this limitation by incorporating large language models (LLMs) to offer more detailed error analyses, yet their applicability remains constrained, particularly in industrial contexts where comprehensive error coverage and swift detection are paramount. To alleviate these challenges, we introduce DEE, a Dual-stage Explainable Evaluation method for estimating the quality of text generation. Built upon Llama 2, DEE follows a dual-stage principle guided by stage-specific instructions to perform efficient identification of errors in generated texts in the initial stage and subsequently delves into providing comprehensive diagnostic reports in the second stage. DEE is fine-tuned on our elaborately assembled dataset AntEval, which encompasses 15K examples from 4 real-world applications of Alipay that employ generative systems. The dataset concerns newly emerged issues like hallucination and toxicity, thereby broadening the scope of DEE's evaluation criteria. Experimental results affirm that DEE's superiority over existing evaluation methods, achieving significant improvements in both human correlation as well as efficiency.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [772]
标题:  Circle Representation for Medical Instance Object Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11507
作者:  Juming Xiong,  Ethan H. Nguyen,  Yilin Liu,  Ruining Deng,  Regina N Tyree,  Hernan Correa,  Girish Hiremath,  Yaohong Wang,  Haichun Yang,  Agnes B. Fogo,  Yuankai Huo
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, circle representation has been introduced for medical imaging, designed specifically to enhance the detection of instance objects that are spherically shaped (e.g., cells, glomeruli, and nuclei). Given its outstanding effectiveness in instance detection, it is compelling to consider the application of circle representation for segmenting instance medical objects. In this study, we introduce CircleSnake, a simple end-to-end segmentation approach that utilizes circle contour deformation for segmenting ball-shaped medical objects at the instance level. The innovation of CircleSnake lies in these three areas: (1) It substitutes the complex bounding box-to-octagon contour transformation with a more consistent and rotation-invariant bounding circle-to-circle contour adaptation. This adaptation specifically targets ball-shaped medical objects. (2) The circle representation employed in CircleSnake significantly reduces the degrees of freedom to two, compared to eight in the octagon representation. This reduction enhances both the robustness of the segmentation performance and the rotational consistency of the method. (3) CircleSnake is the first end-to-end deep instance segmentation pipeline to incorporate circle representation, encompassing consistent circle detection, circle contour proposal, and circular convolution in a unified framework. This integration is achieved through the novel application of circular graph convolution within the context of circle detection and instance segmentation. In practical applications, such as the detection of glomeruli, nuclei, and eosinophils in pathological images, CircleSnake has demonstrated superior performance and greater rotation invariance when compared to benchmarks. The code has been made publicly available: this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [773]
标题:  End-To-End Underwater Video Enhancement: Dataset and Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11506
作者:  Dazhao Du,  Enhan Li,  Lingyu Si,  Fanjiang Xu,  Jianwei Niu
备注:  
Abstract:Underwater video enhancement (UVE) aims to improve the visibility and frame quality of underwater videos, which has significant implications for marine research and exploration. However, existing methods primarily focus on developing image enhancement algorithms to enhance each frame independently. There is a lack of supervised datasets and models specifically tailored for UVE tasks. To fill this gap, we construct the Synthetic Underwater Video Enhancement (SUVE) dataset, comprising 840 diverse underwater-style videos paired with ground-truth reference videos. Based on this dataset, we train a novel underwater video enhancement model, UVENet, which utilizes inter-frame relationships to achieve better enhancement performance. Through extensive experiments on both synthetic and real underwater videos, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. This study represents the first comprehensive exploration of UVE to our knowledge. The code is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/UVENet.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [774]
标题:  Diffusion Models are Geometry Critics: Single Image 3D Editing Using  Pre-Trained Diffusion Priors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11503
作者:  Ruicheng Wang,  Jianfeng Xiang,  Jiaolong Yang,  Xin Tong
备注:  Project page: this https URL
Abstract:We propose a novel image editing technique that enables 3D manipulations on single images, such as object rotation and translation. Existing 3D-aware image editing approaches typically rely on synthetic multi-view datasets for training specialized models, thus constraining their effectiveness on open-domain images featuring significantly more varied layouts and styles. In contrast, our method directly leverages powerful image diffusion models trained on a broad spectrum of text-image pairs and thus retain their exceptional generalization abilities. This objective is realized through the development of an iterative novel view synthesis and geometry alignment algorithm. The algorithm harnesses diffusion models for dual purposes: they provide appearance prior by predicting novel views of the selected object using estimated depth maps, and they act as a geometry critic by correcting misalignments in 3D shapes across the sampled views. Our method can generate high-quality 3D-aware image edits with large viewpoint transformations and high appearance and shape consistency with the input image, pushing the boundaries of what is possible with single-image 3D-aware editing.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [775]
标题:  Accelerating Handover in Mobile Satellite Network
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11502
作者:  Jiasheng Wu,  Shaojie Su,  Xiong Wang,  Jingjing Zhang,  Yue Gao
备注:  
Abstract:The construction of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellite constellations has recently spurred tremendous attention from academia and industry. 5G and 6G standards have specified LEO satellite network as a key component of 5G and 6G networks. However, ground terminals experience frequent, high-latency handover incurred by satellites' fast travelling speed, which deteriorates the performance of latency-sensitive applications. To address this challenge, we propose a novel handover flowchart for mobile satellite networks, which can considerably reduce the handover latency. The innovation behind this scheme is to mitigate the interaction between the access and core networks that occupy the majority of time overhead by leveraging the predictable travelling trajectory and spatial distribution inherent in mobile satellite networks. Specifically, we design a fine-grained synchronized algorithm to address the synchronization problem due to the lack of control signalling delivery between the access and core networks. Moreover, we minimize the computational complexity of the core network using information such as the satellite access strategy and unique spatial distribution, which is caused by frequent prediction operations. We have built a prototype for a mobile satellite network using modified Open5GS and UERANSIM, which is driven by actual LEO satellite constellations such as Starlink and Kuiper. We have conducted extensive experiments, and the results demonstrate that our proposed handover scheme can considerably reduce the handover latency compared to the 3GPP Non-terrestrial Networks (NTN) and two other existing handover schemes.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [776]
标题:  Do CLIPs Always Generalize Better than ImageNet Models?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11497
作者:  Qizhou Wang,  Yong Lin,  Yongqiang Chen,  Ludwig Schmidt,  Bo Han,  Tong Zhang
备注:  Qizhou Wang, Yong Lin, and Yongqiang Chen contributed equally. Project page: this https URL
Abstract:Large vision language models, such as CLIPs, have revolutionized modern machine learning. CLIPs have demonstrated great generalizability under distribution shifts, supported by an increasing body of literature. However, the evaluation datasets for CLIPs are variations primarily designed for ImageNet benchmarks, which may not fully reflect the extent to which CLIPs, e.g., pre-trained on LAION, robust to spurious correlations. To bridge the gap, we collect a real-world dataset called CounterAnimal that contains realistic spurious features found in animal photos. CounterAnimal consists of a) the common group: comprising animals on common backgrounds, and b) the counter group: including animals on unusual backgrounds. The performance drops from the common to counter groups quantify the reliance of models on spurious features (i.e., backgrounds) to predict the animals. We find that CLIPs trained on either LAION or the OpenAI data exhibit notable performance drops on the counter group. Surprisingly, we observe that single-modal models trained on ImageNet are more robust than CLIPs. We provide both theoretical and empirical explanations for why CLIPs still learn spurious features. Our findings suggest that distribution shifts remain an open problem for CLIPs, and one needs to be cautious about test setups when evaluating foundation models pre-trained on a significantly different scale and distribution.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [777]
标题:  MCD: Diverse Large-Scale Multi-Campus Dataset for Robot Perception
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11496
作者:  Thien-Minh Nguyen,  Shenghai Yuan,  Thien Hoang Nguyen,  Pengyu Yin,  Haozhi Cao,  Lihua Xie,  Maciej Wozniak,  Patric Jensfelt,  Marko Thiel,  Justin Ziegenbein,  Noel Blunder
备注:  Accepted by The IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition 2024
Abstract:Perception plays a crucial role in various robot applications. However, existing well-annotated datasets are biased towards autonomous driving scenarios, while unlabelled SLAM datasets are quickly over-fitted, and often lack environment and domain variations. To expand the frontier of these fields, we introduce a comprehensive dataset named MCD (Multi-Campus Dataset), featuring a wide range of sensing modalities, high-accuracy ground truth, and diverse challenging environments across three Eurasian university campuses. MCD comprises both CCS (Classical Cylindrical Spinning) and NRE (Non-Repetitive Epicyclic) lidars, high-quality IMUs (Inertial Measurement Units), cameras, and UWB (Ultra-WideBand) sensors. Furthermore, in a pioneering effort, we introduce semantic annotations of 29 classes over 59k sparse NRE lidar scans across three domains, thus providing a novel challenge to existing semantic segmentation research upon this largely unexplored lidar modality. Finally, we propose, for the first time to the best of our knowledge, continuous-time ground truth based on optimization-based registration of lidar-inertial data on large survey-grade prior maps, which are also publicly released, each several times the size of existing ones. We conduct a rigorous evaluation of numerous state-of-the-art algorithms on MCD, report their performance, and highlight the challenges awaiting solutions from the research community.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [778]
标题:  Semantic-Enhanced Representation Learning for Road Networks with  Temporal Dynamics
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11495
作者:  Yile Chen,  Xiucheng Li,  Gao Cong,  Zhifeng Bao,  Cheng Long
备注:  
Abstract:In this study, we introduce a novel framework called Toast for learning general-purpose representations of road networks, along with its advanced counterpart DyToast, designed to enhance the integration of temporal dynamics to boost the performance of various time-sensitive downstream tasks. Specifically, we propose to encode two pivotal semantic characteristics intrinsic to road networks: traffic patterns and traveling semantics. To achieve this, we refine the skip-gram module by incorporating auxiliary objectives aimed at predicting the traffic context associated with a target road segment. Moreover, we leverage trajectory data and design pre-training strategies based on Transformer to distill traveling semantics on road networks. DyToast further augments this framework by employing unified trigonometric functions characterized by their beneficial properties, enabling the capture of temporal evolution and dynamic nature of road networks more effectively. With these proposed techniques, we can obtain representations that encode multi-faceted aspects of knowledge within road networks, applicable across both road segment-based applications and trajectory-based applications. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets across three tasks demonstrate that our proposed framework consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines by a significant margin.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [779]
标题:  CCC++: Optimized Color Classified Colorization with Segment Anything  Model (SAM) Empowered Object Selective Color Harmonization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11494
作者:  Mrityunjoy Gain,  Avi Deb Raha,  Rameswar Debnath
备注:  arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:2403.01476
Abstract:In this paper, we formulate the colorization problem into a multinomial classification problem and then apply a weighted function to classes. We propose a set of formulas to transform color values into color classes and vice versa. To optimize the classes, we experiment with different bin sizes for color class transformation. Observing class appearance, standard deviation, and model parameters on various extremely large-scale real-time images in practice we propose 532 color classes for our classification task. During training, we propose a class-weighted function based on true class appearance in each batch to ensure proper saturation of individual objects. We adjust the weights of the major classes, which are more frequently observed, by lowering them, while escalating the weights of the minor classes, which are less commonly observed. In our class re-weight formula, we propose a hyper-parameter for finding the optimal trade-off between the major and minor appeared classes. As we apply regularization to enhance the stability of the minor class, occasional minor noise may appear at the object's edges. We propose a novel object-selective color harmonization method empowered by the Segment Anything Model (SAM) to refine and enhance these edges. We propose two new color image evaluation metrics, the Color Class Activation Ratio (CCAR), and the True Activation Ratio (TAR), to quantify the richness of color components. We compare our proposed model with state-of-the-art models using six different dataset: Place, ADE, Celeba, COCO, Oxford 102 Flower, and ImageNet, in qualitative and quantitative approaches. The experimental results show that our proposed model outstrips other models in visualization, CNR and in our proposed CCAR and TAR measurement criteria while maintaining satisfactory performance in regression (MSE, PSNR), similarity (SSIM, LPIPS, UIUI), and generative criteria (FID).
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [780]
标题:  SmartRefine: A Scenario-Adaptive Refinement Framework for Efficient  Motion Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11492
作者:  Yang Zhou,  Hao Shao,  Letian Wang,  Steven L. Waslander,  Hongsheng Li,  Yu Liu
备注:  Camera-ready version for CVPR 2024
Abstract:Predicting the future motion of surrounding agents is essential for autonomous vehicles (AVs) to operate safely in dynamic, human-robot-mixed environments. Context information, such as road maps and surrounding agents' states, provides crucial geometric and semantic information for motion behavior prediction. To this end, recent works explore two-stage prediction frameworks where coarse trajectories are first proposed, and then used to select critical context information for trajectory refinement. However, they either incur a large amount of computation or bring limited improvement, if not both. In this paper, we introduce a novel scenario-adaptive refinement strategy, named SmartRefine, to refine prediction with minimal additional computation. Specifically, SmartRefine can comprehensively adapt refinement configurations based on each scenario's properties, and smartly chooses the number of refinement iterations by introducing a quality score to measure the prediction quality and remaining refinement potential of each scenario. SmartRefine is designed as a generic and flexible approach that can be seamlessly integrated into most state-of-the-art motion prediction models. Experiments on Argoverse (1 & 2) show that our method consistently improves the prediction accuracy of multiple state-of-the-art prediction models. Specifically, by adding SmartRefine to QCNet, we outperform all published ensemble-free works on the Argoverse 2 leaderboard (single agent track) at submission. Comprehensive studies are also conducted to ablate design choices and explore the mechanism behind multi-iteration refinement. Codes are available at this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [781]
标题:  Uncertainty-Calibrated Test-Time Model Adaptation without Forgetting
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11491
作者:  Mingkui Tan,  Guohao Chen,  Jiaxiang Wu,  Yifan Zhang,  Yaofo Chen,  Peilin Zhao,  Shuaicheng Niu
备注:  20 pages, 14 tables, 11 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:2204.02610
Abstract:Test-time adaptation (TTA) seeks to tackle potential distribution shifts between training and test data by adapting a given model w.r.t. any test sample. Although recent TTA has shown promising performance, we still face two key challenges: 1) prior methods perform backpropagation for each test sample, resulting in unbearable optimization costs to many applications; 2) while existing TTA can significantly improve the test performance on out-of-distribution data, they often suffer from severe performance degradation on in-distribution data after TTA (known as forgetting). To this end, we have proposed an Efficient Anti-Forgetting Test-Time Adaptation (EATA) method which develops an active sample selection criterion to identify reliable and non-redundant samples for test-time entropy minimization. To alleviate forgetting, EATA introduces a Fisher regularizer estimated from test samples to constrain important model parameters from drastic changes. However, in EATA, the adopted entropy loss consistently assigns higher confidence to predictions even for samples that are underlying uncertain, leading to overconfident predictions. To tackle this, we further propose EATA with Calibration (EATA-C) to separately exploit the reducible model uncertainty and the inherent data uncertainty for calibrated TTA. Specifically, we measure the model uncertainty by the divergence between predictions from the full network and its sub-networks, on which we propose a divergence loss to encourage consistent predictions instead of overconfident ones. To further recalibrate prediction confidence, we utilize the disagreement among predicted labels as an indicator of the data uncertainty, and then devise a min-max entropy regularizer to selectively increase and decrease prediction confidence for different samples. Experiments on image classification and semantic segmentation verify the effectiveness of our methods.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [782]
标题:  Can LLMs Generate Human-Like Wayfinding Instructions? Towards  Platform-Agnostic Embodied Instruction Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11487
作者:  Vishnu Sashank Dorbala,  Sanjoy Chowdhury,  Dinesh Manocha
备注:  13 Pages
Abstract:We present a novel approach to automatically synthesize "wayfinding instructions" for an embodied robot agent. In contrast to prior approaches that are heavily reliant on human-annotated datasets designed exclusively for specific simulation platforms, our algorithm uses in-context learning to condition an LLM to generate instructions using just a few references. Using an LLM-based Visual Question Answering strategy, we gather detailed information about the environment which is used by the LLM for instruction synthesis. We implement our approach on multiple simulation platforms including Matterport3D, AI Habitat and ThreeDWorld, thereby demonstrating its platform-agnostic nature. We subjectively evaluate our approach via a user study and observe that 83.3% of users find the synthesized instructions accurately capture the details of the environment and show characteristics similar to those of human-generated instructions. Further, we conduct zero-shot navigation with multiple approaches on the REVERIE dataset using the generated instructions, and observe very close correlation with the baseline on standard success metrics (< 1% change in SR), quantifying the viability of generated instructions in replacing human-annotated data. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first LLM-driven approach capable of generating "human-like" instructions in a platform-agnostic manner, without requiring any form of training.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [783]
标题:  Expanding the Resolution Boundary of Outcome-Based Imperfect-Recall  Abstraction in Games with Ordered Signals
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11486
作者:  Yanchang Fu,  Junge Zhang,  Dongdong Bai,  Lingyun Zhao,  Jialu Song,  Kaiqi Huang
备注:  35 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:In the development of advanced Texas Hold'em AI systems, abstraction technology has garnered widespread attention due to its significant effect in simplifying game complexity. This study adopts a more specific model, the games of ordered signal, to describe Texas Hold'em-style games and optimizes this model to streamline its mathematical representation and broaden its applicability. By transitioning from a broad imperfect information game model to a game with ordered signals model, we have separated the previously intertwined infoset abstraction and action abstraction into independent signal abstraction and action abstraction. Importantly, this signal abstraction provides a mathematical framework for the hand abstraction task, which is emphatically discussed in this paper. Additionally, a novel common refinement principle is introduced, revealing the limit performance of hand abstraction algorithms. We introduce potential outcome isomorphism (POI) and pinpoint that it suffers from the issue of excessive abstraction. Futher, We demonstrate that POI serves as a common refinement for leading outcome-based hand abstraction algorithms, such as E[HS] and PA\&PAEMD. Consequently, excessive abstraction also inherently affects these algorithms, leading to suboptimal performance. Our investigation reveals the omission of historical data as a primary contributor to excessive abstraction. To remedy this, we propose the K-Recall Outcome Isomorphism (KROI) to incorporate the missing information. Compared with POI, KROI more accurately mirrors lossless isomorphism (LI), the ground truth, offering enhanced signal abstraction resolution. Experimental results in the Numeral211 Hold'em indicate that strategies developed through KROI approximate the exploitability of those developed through LI more closely than those trained through POI.
Subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [784]
标题:  A Browser Extension for in-place Signaling and Assessment of  Misinformation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11485
作者:  Farnaz Jahanbakhsh,  David R. Karger
备注:  
Abstract:The status-quo of misinformation moderation is a central authority, usually social platforms, deciding what content constitutes misinformation and how it should be handled. However, to preserve users' autonomy, researchers have explored democratized misinformation moderation. One proposition is to enable users to assess content accuracy and specify whose assessments they trust. We explore how these affordances can be provided on the web, without cooperation from the platforms where users consume content. We present a browser extension that empowers users to assess the accuracy of any content on the web and shows the user assessments from their trusted sources in-situ. Through a two-week user study, we report on how users perceive such a tool, the kind of content users want to assess, and the rationales they use in their assessments. We identify implications for designing tools that enable users to moderate content for themselves with the help of those they trust.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [785]
标题:  Robot Navigation in Unknown and Cluttered Workspace with Dynamical  System Modulation in Starshaped Roadmap
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11484
作者:  Kai Chen,  Haichao Liu,  Yulin Li,  Jianghua Duan,  Lei Zhu,  Jun Ma
备注:  
Abstract:This paper presents a novel reactive motion planning framework for navigating robots in unknown and cluttered 2D workspace. Typical existing methods are developed by enforcing the robot staying in free regions represented by the locally extracted ellipse or polygon. Instead, we navigate the robot in free space with an alternate starshaped decomposition, which is calculated directly from real-time sensor data. Additionally, a roadmap is constructed incrementally to maintain the connectivity information of the starshaped regions. Compared to the roadmap built upon connected polygons or ellipses in the conventional approaches, the concave starshaped region is better suited to capture the natural distribution of sensor data, so that the perception information can be fully exploited for robot navigation. In this sense, conservative and myopic behaviors are avoided with the proposed approach, and intricate obstacle configurations can be suitably accommodated in unknown and cluttered environments. Then, we design a heuristic exploration algorithm on the roadmap to determine the frontier points of the starshaped regions, from which short-term goals are selected to attract the robot towards the goal configuration. It is noteworthy that, a recovery mechanism is developed on the roadmap that is triggered once a non-extendable short-term goal is reached. This mechanism renders it possible to deal with dead-end situations that can be typically encountered in unknown and cluttered environments. Furthermore, safe and smooth motion within the starshaped regions is generated by employing the Dynamical System Modulation (DSM) approach on the constructed roadmap. Through comprehensive evaluation in both simulations and real-world experiments, the proposed method outperforms the benchmark methods in terms of success rate and traveling time.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [786]
标题:  Open-World Semi-Supervised Learning for Node Classification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11483
作者:  Yanling Wang,  Jing Zhang,  Lingxi Zhang,  Lixin Liu,  Yuxiao Dong,  Cuiping Li,  Hong Chen,  Hongzhi Yin
备注:  Accepted by ICDE 2024
Abstract:Open-world semi-supervised learning (Open-world SSL) for node classification, that classifies unlabeled nodes into seen classes or multiple novel classes, is a practical but under-explored problem in the graph community. As only seen classes have human labels, they are usually better learned than novel classes, and thus exhibit smaller intra-class variances within the embedding space (named as imbalance of intra-class variances between seen and novel classes). Based on empirical and theoretical analysis, we find the variance imbalance can negatively impact the model performance. Pre-trained feature encoders can alleviate this issue via producing compact representations for novel classes. However, creating general pre-trained encoders for various types of graph data has been proven to be challenging. As such, there is a demand for an effective method that does not rely on pre-trained graph encoders. In this paper, we propose an IMbalance-Aware method named OpenIMA for Open-world semi-supervised node classification, which trains the node classification model from scratch via contrastive learning with bias-reduced pseudo labels. Extensive experiments on seven popular graph benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of OpenIMA, and the source code has been available on GitHub.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [787]
标题:  SeisFusion: Constrained Diffusion Model with Input Guidance for 3D  Seismic Data Interpolation and Reconstruction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11482
作者:  Shuang Wang,  Fei Deng,  Peifan Jiang,  Zishan Gong,  Xiaolin Wei,  Yuqing Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Geographical, physical, or economic constraints often result in missing traces within seismic data, making the reconstruction of complete seismic data a crucial step in seismic data processing. Traditional methods for seismic data reconstruction require the selection of multiple empirical parameters and struggle to handle large-scale continuous missing data. With the development of deep learning, various neural networks have demonstrated powerful reconstruction capabilities. However, these convolutional neural networks represent a point-to-point reconstruction approach that may not cover the entire distribution of the dataset. Consequently, when dealing with seismic data featuring complex missing patterns, such networks may experience varying degrees of performance degradation. In response to this challenge, we propose a novel diffusion model reconstruction framework tailored for 3D seismic data. To constrain the results generated by the diffusion model, we introduce conditional supervision constraints into the diffusion model, constraining the generated data of the diffusion model based on the input data to be reconstructed. We introduce a 3D neural network architecture into the diffusion model, successfully extending the 2D diffusion model to 3D space. Additionally, we refine the model's generation process by incorporating missing data into the generation process, resulting in reconstructions with higher consistency. Through ablation studies determining optimal parameter values, our method exhibits superior reconstruction accuracy when applied to both field datasets and synthetic datasets, effectively addressing a wide range of complex missing patterns. Our implementation is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)

**编号**: [788]
标题:  VideoAgent: A Memory-augmented Multimodal Agent for Video Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11481
作者:  Yue Fan,  Xiaojian Ma,  Rujie Wu,  Yuntao Du,  Jiaqi Li,  Zhi Gao,  Qing Li
备注:  Project page: videoagent.github.io; First two authors contributed equally
Abstract:We explore how reconciling several foundation models (large language models and vision-language models) with a novel unified memory mechanism could tackle the challenging video understanding problem, especially capturing the long-term temporal relations in lengthy videos. In particular, the proposed multimodal agent VideoAgent: 1) constructs a structured memory to store both the generic temporal event descriptions and object-centric tracking states of the video; 2) given an input task query, it employs tools including video segment localization and object memory querying along with other visual foundation models to interactively solve the task, utilizing the zero-shot tool-use ability of LLMs. VideoAgent demonstrates impressive performances on several long-horizon video understanding benchmarks, an average increase of 6.6% on NExT-QA and 26.0% on EgoSchema over baselines, closing the gap between open-sourced models and private counterparts including Gemini 1.5 Pro.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [789]
标题:  Span-Based Optimal Sample Complexity for Weakly Communicating and  General Average Reward MDPs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11477
作者:  Matthew Zurek,  Yudong Chen
备注:  42 pages, 2 figures; this article supersedes arXiv:2311.13469
Abstract:We study the sample complexity of learning an $\epsilon$-optimal policy in an average-reward Markov decision process (MDP) under a generative model. For weakly communicating MDPs, we establish the complexity bound $\tilde{O}(SA\frac{H}{\epsilon^2})$, where $H$ is the span of the bias function of the optimal policy and $SA$ is the cardinality of the state-action space. Our result is the first that is minimax optimal (up to log factors) in all parameters $S,A,H$ and $\epsilon$, improving on existing work that either assumes uniformly bounded mixing times for all policies or has suboptimal dependence on the parameters. We further investigate sample complexity in general (non-weakly-communicating) average-reward MDPs. We argue a new transient time parameter $B$ is necessary, establish an $\tilde{O}(SA\frac{B+H}{\epsilon^2})$ complexity bound, and prove a matching (up to log factors) minimax lower bound. Both results are based on reducing the average-reward MDP to a discounted MDP, which requires new ideas in the general setting. To establish the optimality of this reduction, we develop improved bounds for $\gamma$-discounted MDPs, showing that $\tilde{\Omega}\left(SA\frac{H}{(1-\gamma)^2\epsilon^2}\right)$ samples suffice to learn an $\epsilon$-optimal policy in weakly communicating MDPs under the regime that $\gamma\geq 1-1/H$, and $\tilde{\Omega}\left(SA\frac{B+H}{(1-\gamma)^2\epsilon^2}\right)$ samples suffice in general MDPs when $\gamma\geq 1-\frac{1}{B+H}$. Both these results circumvent the well-known lower bound of $\tilde{\Omega}\left(SA\frac{1}{(1-\gamma)^3\epsilon^2}\right)$ for arbitrary $\gamma$-discounted MDPs. Our analysis develops upper bounds on certain instance-dependent variance parameters in terms of the span and transient time parameters. The weakly communicating bounds are tighter than those based on the mixing time or diameter of the MDP and may be of broader use.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Information Theory (cs.IT); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [790]
标题:  Word Order's Impacts: Insights from Reordering and Generation Analysis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11473
作者:  Qinghua Zhao,  Jiaang Li,  Lei Li,  Zenghui Zhou,  Junfeng Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Existing works have studied the impacts of the order of words within natural text. They usually analyze it by destroying the original order of words to create a scrambled sequence, and then comparing the models' performance between the original and scrambled sequences. The experimental results demonstrate marginal drops. Considering this findings, different hypothesis about word order is proposed, including ``the order of words is redundant with lexical semantics'', and ``models do not rely on word order''. In this paper, we revisit the aforementioned hypotheses by adding a order reconstruction perspective, and selecting datasets of different spectrum. Specifically, we first select four different datasets, and then design order reconstruction and continuing generation tasks. Empirical findings support that ChatGPT relies on word order to infer, but cannot support or negate the redundancy relations between word order lexical semantics.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [791]
标题:  Accelerating String-Key Learned Index Structures via Memoization-based  Incremental Training
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11472
作者:  Minsu Kim,  Jinwoo Hwang,  Guseul Heo,  Seiyeon Cho,  Divya Mahajan,  Jongse Park
备注:  Accepted at VLDB '24; 12 pages + 2 pages (ref), 18 figures, 2 tables
Abstract:Learned indexes use machine learning models to learn the mappings between keys and their corresponding positions in key-value indexes. These indexes use the mapping information as training data. Learned indexes require frequent retrainings of their models to incorporate the changes introduced by update queries. To efficiently retrain the models, existing learned index systems often harness a linear algebraic QR factorization technique that performs matrix decomposition. This factorization approach processes all key-position pairs during each retraining, resulting in compute operations that grow linearly with the total number of keys and their lengths. Consequently, the retrainings create a severe performance bottleneck, especially for variable-length string keys, while the retrainings are crucial for maintaining high prediction accuracy and in turn, ensuring low query service latency. To address this performance problem, we develop an algorithm-hardware co-designed string-key learned index system, dubbed SIA. In designing SIA, we leverage a unique algorithmic property of the matrix decomposition-based training method. Exploiting the property, we develop a memoization-based incremental training scheme, which only requires computation over updated keys, while decomposition results of non-updated keys from previous computations can be reused. We further enhance SIA to offload a portion of this training process to an FPGA accelerator to not only relieve CPU resources for serving index queries (i.e., inference), but also accelerate the training itself. Our evaluation shows that compared to ALEX, LIPP, and SIndex, a state-of-the-art learned index systems, SIA-accelerated learned indexes offer 2.6x and 3.4x higher throughput on the two real-world benchmark suites, YCSB and Twitter cache trace, respectively.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Hardware Architecture (cs.AR); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [792]
标题:  Generative Motion Stylization within Canonical Motion Space
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11469
作者:  Jiaxu Zhang,  Xin Chen,  Gang Yu,  Zhigang Tu
备注:  
Abstract:Stylized motion breathes life into characters. However, the fixed skeleton structure and style representation hinder existing data-driven motion synthesis methods from generating stylized motion for various characters. In this work, we propose a generative motion stylization pipeline, named MotionS, for synthesizing diverse and stylized motion on cross-structure characters using cross-modality style prompts. Our key insight is to embed motion style into a cross-modality latent space and perceive the cross-structure skeleton topologies, allowing for motion stylization within a canonical motion space. Specifically, the large-scale Contrastive-Language-Image-Pre-training (CLIP) model is leveraged to construct the cross-modality latent space, enabling flexible style representation within this space. Additionally, two topology-encoded tokens are learned to capture the canonical and specific skeleton topologies, facilitating cross-structure topology shifting. Subsequently, the topology-shifted stylization diffusion is designed to generate motion content for the specific skeleton and stylize it in the shifted canonical motion space using multi-modality style descriptions. Through an extensive set of examples, we demonstrate the flexibility and generalizability of our pipeline across various characters and style descriptions. Qualitative and quantitative experiments underscore the superiority of our pipeline over state-of-the-art methods, consistently delivering high-quality stylized motion across a broad spectrum of skeletal structures.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR)

**编号**: [793]
标题:  Collage Prompting: Budget-Friendly Visual Recognition with GPT-4V
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11468
作者:  Siyu Xu,  Yunke Wang,  Daochang Liu,  Chang Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in generative AI have suggested that by taking visual prompt, GPT-4V can demonstrate significant proficiency in image recognition task. Despite its impressive capabilities, the financial cost associated with GPT-4V's inference presents a substantial barrier for its wide use. To address this challenge, our work introduces Collage Prompting, a budget-friendly prompting approach that concatenates multiple images into a single visual input. With collage prompt, GPT-4V is able to perform image recognition on several images simultaneously. Based on the observation that the accuracy of GPT-4V's image recognition varies significantly with the order of images within the collage prompt, our method further learns to optimize the arrangement of images for maximum recognition accuracy. A graph predictor is trained to indicate the accuracy of each collage prompt, then we propose an optimization method to navigate the search space of possible image arrangements. Experiment results across various datasets demonstrate the cost-efficiency score of collage prompt is much larger than standard prompt. Additionally, collage prompt with learned arrangement achieves clearly better accuracy than collage prompt with random arrangement in GPT-4V's visual recognition.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [794]
标题:  FedSPU: Personalized Federated Learning for Resource-constrained Devices  with Stochastic Parameter Update
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11464
作者:  Ziru Niu,  Hai Dong,  A. K. Qin
备注:  14 pages including ref
Abstract:Personalized Federated Learning (PFL) is widely employed in IoT applications to handle high-volume, non-iid client data while ensuring data privacy. However, heterogeneous edge devices owned by clients may impose varying degrees of resource constraints, causing computation and communication bottlenecks for PFL. Federated Dropout has emerged as a popular strategy to address this challenge, wherein only a subset of the global model, i.e. a \textit{sub-model}, is trained on a client's device, thereby reducing computation and communication overheads. Nevertheless, the dropout-based model-pruning strategy may introduce bias, particularly towards non-iid local data. When biased sub-models absorb highly divergent parameters from other clients, performance degradation becomes inevitable. In response, we propose federated learning with stochastic parameter update (FedSPU). Unlike dropout that tailors the global model to small-size local sub-models, FedSPU maintains the full model architecture on each device but randomly freezes a certain percentage of neurons in the local model during training while updating the remaining neurons. This approach ensures that a portion of the local model remains personalized, thereby enhancing the model's robustness against biased parameters from other clients. Experimental results demonstrate that FedSPU outperforms federated dropout by 7.57\% on average in terms of accuracy. Furthermore, an introduced early stopping scheme leads to a significant reduction of the training time by \(24.8\%\sim70.4\%\) while maintaining high accuracy.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [795]
标题:  Siamese Learning with Joint Alignment and Regression for  Weakly-Supervised Video Paragraph Grounding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11463
作者:  Chaolei Tan,  Jianhuang Lai,  Wei-Shi Zheng,  Jian-Fang Hu
备注:  Accepted to CVPR 2024
Abstract:Video Paragraph Grounding (VPG) is an emerging task in video-language understanding, which aims at localizing multiple sentences with semantic relations and temporal order from an untrimmed video. However, existing VPG approaches are heavily reliant on a considerable number of temporal labels that are laborious and time-consuming to acquire. In this work, we introduce and explore Weakly-Supervised Video Paragraph Grounding (WSVPG) to eliminate the need of temporal annotations. Different from previous weakly-supervised grounding frameworks based on multiple instance learning or reconstruction learning for two-stage candidate ranking, we propose a novel siamese learning framework that jointly learns the cross-modal feature alignment and temporal coordinate regression without timestamp labels to achieve concise one-stage localization for WSVPG. Specifically, we devise a Siamese Grounding TRansformer (SiamGTR) consisting of two weight-sharing branches for learning complementary supervision. An Augmentation Branch is utilized for directly regressing the temporal boundaries of a complete paragraph within a pseudo video, and an Inference Branch is designed to capture the order-guided feature correspondence for localizing multiple sentences in a normal video. We demonstrate by extensive experiments that our paradigm has superior practicability and flexibility to achieve efficient weakly-supervised or semi-supervised learning, outperforming state-of-the-art methods trained with the same or stronger supervision.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [796]
标题:  VIHE: Virtual In-Hand Eye Transformer for 3D Robotic Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11461
作者:  Weiyao Wang,  Yutian Lei,  Shiyu Jin,  Gregory D. Hager,  Liangjun Zhang
备注:  
Abstract:In this work, we introduce the Virtual In-Hand Eye Transformer (VIHE), a novel method designed to enhance 3D manipulation capabilities through action-aware view rendering. VIHE autoregressively refines actions in multiple stages by conditioning on rendered views posed from action predictions in the earlier stages. These virtual in-hand views provide a strong inductive bias for effectively recognizing the correct pose for the hand, especially for challenging high-precision tasks such as peg insertion. On 18 manipulation tasks in RLBench simulated environments, VIHE achieves a new state-of-the-art, with a 12% absolute improvement, increasing from 65% to 77% over the existing state-of-the-art model using 100 demonstrations per task. In real-world scenarios, VIHE can learn manipulation tasks with just a handful of demonstrations, highlighting its practical utility. Videos and code implementation can be found at our project site: this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [797]
标题:  Fed3DGS: Scalable 3D Gaussian Splatting with Federated Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11460
作者:  Teppei Suzuki
备注:  Code: this https URL
Abstract:In this work, we present Fed3DGS, a scalable 3D reconstruction framework based on 3D Gaussian splatting (3DGS) with federated learning. Existing city-scale reconstruction methods typically adopt a centralized approach, which gathers all data in a central server and reconstructs scenes. The approach hampers scalability because it places a heavy load on the server and demands extensive data storage when reconstructing scenes on a scale beyond city-scale. In pursuit of a more scalable 3D reconstruction, we propose a federated learning framework with 3DGS, which is a decentralized framework and can potentially use distributed computational resources across millions of clients. We tailor a distillation-based model update scheme for 3DGS and introduce appearance modeling for handling non-IID data in the scenario of 3D reconstruction with federated learning. We simulate our method on several large-scale benchmarks, and our method demonstrates rendered image quality comparable to centralized approaches. In addition, we also simulate our method with data collected in different seasons, demonstrating that our framework can reflect changes in the scenes and our appearance modeling captures changes due to seasonal variations.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [798]
标题:  ALDM-Grasping: Diffusion-aided Zero-Shot Sim-to-Real Transfer for Robot  Grasping
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11459
作者:  Yiwei Li,  Zihao Wu,  Huaqin Zhao,  Tianze Yang,  Zhengliang Liu,  Peng Shu,  Jin Sun,  Ramviyas Parasuraman,  Tianming Liu
备注:  
Abstract:To tackle the "reality gap" encountered in Sim-to-Real transfer, this study proposes a diffusion-based framework that minimizes inconsistencies in grasping actions between the simulation settings and realistic environments. The process begins by training an adversarial supervision layout-to-image diffusion model(ALDM). Then, leverage the ALDM approach to enhance the simulation environment, rendering it with photorealistic fidelity, thereby optimizing robotic grasp task training. Experimental results indicate this framework outperforms existing models in both success rates and adaptability to new environments through improvements in the accuracy and reliability of visual grasping actions under a variety of conditions. Specifically, it achieves a 75\% success rate in grasping tasks under plain backgrounds and maintains a 65\% success rate in more complex scenarios. This performance demonstrates this framework excels at generating controlled image content based on text descriptions, identifying object grasp points, and demonstrating zero-shot learning in complex, unseen scenarios.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [799]
标题:  HateCOT: An Explanation-Enhanced Dataset for Generalizable Offensive  Speech Detection via Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11456
作者:  Huy Nghiem,  Hal Daumé III
备注:  Preprint
Abstract:The ubiquitousness of social media has led to the need for reliable and efficient detection of offensive content to limit harmful effects. This has led to a proliferation of datasets and models related to detecting offensive content. While sophisticated models have attained strong performance on individual datasets, these models often do not generalize due to differences between how "offensive content" is conceptualized, and the resulting differences in how these datasets are labeled. In this paper, we introduce HateCOT, a dataset of 52,000 samples drawn from diverse existing sources with explanations generated by GPT-3.5-Turbo and human-curated. We show that pre-training models for the detection of offensive content on HateCOT significantly boots open-sourced Language Models on three benchmark datasets in both zero and few-shot settings, despite differences in domain and task.} We further find that HateCOT enables effective K-shot fine-tuning in the low-resource settings.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI)

**编号**: [800]
标题:  Bridging 3D Gaussian and Mesh for Freeview Video Rendering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11453
作者:  Yuting Xiao,  Xuan Wang,  Jiafei Li,  Hongrui Cai,  Yanbo Fan,  Nan Xue,  Minghui Yang,  Yujun Shen,  Shenghua Gao
备注:  7 pages
Abstract:This is only a preview version of GauMesh. Recently, primitive-based rendering has been proven to achieve convincing results in solving the problem of modeling and rendering the 3D dynamic scene from 2D images. Despite this, in the context of novel view synthesis, each type of primitive has its inherent defects in terms of representation ability. It is difficult to exploit the mesh to depict the fuzzy geometry. Meanwhile, the point-based splatting (e.g. the 3D Gaussian Splatting) method usually produces artifacts or blurry pixels in the area with smooth geometry and sharp textures. As a result, it is difficult, even not impossible, to represent the complex and dynamic scene with a single type of primitive. To this end, we propose a novel approach, GauMesh, to bridge the 3D Gaussian and Mesh for modeling and rendering the dynamic scenes. Given a sequence of tracked mesh as initialization, our goal is to simultaneously optimize the mesh geometry, color texture, opacity maps, a set of 3D Gaussians, and the deformation field. At a specific time, we perform $\alpha$-blending on the RGB and opacity values based on the merged and re-ordered z-buffers from mesh and 3D Gaussian rasterizations. This produces the final rendering, which is supervised by the ground-truth image. Experiments demonstrate that our approach adapts the appropriate type of primitives to represent the different parts of the dynamic scene and outperforms all the baseline methods in both quantitative and qualitative comparisons without losing render speed.
Subjects: Graphics (cs.GR); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [801]
标题:  CasSR: Activating Image Power for Real-World Image Super-Resolution
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11451
作者:  Haolan Chen,  Jinhua Hao,  Kai Zhao,  Kun Yuan,  Ming Sun,  Chao Zhou,  Wei Hu
备注:  
Abstract:The objective of image super-resolution is to generate clean and high-resolution images from degraded versions. Recent advancements in diffusion modeling have led to the emergence of various image super-resolution techniques that leverage pretrained text-to-image (T2I) models. Nevertheless, due to the prevalent severe degradation in low-resolution images and the inherent characteristics of diffusion models, achieving high-fidelity image restoration remains challenging. Existing methods often exhibit issues including semantic loss, artifacts, and the introduction of spurious content not present in the original image. To tackle this challenge, we propose Cascaded diffusion for Super-Resolution, CasSR , a novel method designed to produce highly detailed and realistic images. In particular, we develop a cascaded controllable diffusion model that aims to optimize the extraction of information from low-resolution images. This model generates a preliminary reference image to facilitate initial information extraction and degradation mitigation. Furthermore, we propose a multi-attention mechanism to enhance the T2I model's capability in maximizing the restoration of the original image content. Through a comprehensive blend of qualitative and quantitative analyses, we substantiate the efficacy and superiority of our approach.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [802]
标题:  Zero-shot Compound Expression Recognition with Visual Language Model at  the 6th ABAW Challenge
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11450
作者:  Jiahe Wang,  Jiale Huang,  Bingzhao Cai,  Yifan Cao,  Xin Yun,  Shangfei Wang
备注:  USTC-AC's paper for Compound Expression (CE) Recognition Challenge in 6th Workshop and Competition on Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-wild (ABAW)
Abstract:Conventional approaches to facial expression recognition primarily focus on the classification of six basic facial expressions. Nevertheless, real-world situations present a wider range of complex compound expressions that consist of combinations of these basics ones due to limited availability of comprehensive training datasets. The 6th Workshop and Competition on Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-wild (ABAW) offered unlabeled datasets containing compound expressions. In this study, we propose a zero-shot approach for recognizing compound expressions by leveraging a pretrained visual language model integrated with some traditional CNN networks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [803]
标题:  Graph Partial Label Learning with Potential Cause Discovering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11449
作者:  Hang Gao,  Jiaguo Yuan,  Jiangmeng Li,  Chengyu Yao,  Fengge Wu,  Junsuo Zhao,  Changwen Zheng
备注:  
Abstract:Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have gained considerable attention for their potential in addressing challenges posed by complex graph-structured data in diverse domains. However, accurately annotating graph data for training is difficult due to the inherent complexity and interconnectedness of graphs. To tackle this issue, we propose a novel graph representation learning method that enables GNN models to effectively learn discriminative information even in the presence of noisy labels within the context of Partially Labeled Learning (PLL). PLL is a critical weakly supervised learning problem, where each training instance is associated with a set of candidate labels, including both the true label and additional noisy labels. Our approach leverages potential cause extraction to obtain graph data that exhibit a higher likelihood of possessing a causal relationship with the labels. By incorporating auxiliary training based on the extracted graph data, our model can effectively filter out the noise contained in the labels. We support the rationale behind our approach with a series of theoretical analyses. Moreover, we conduct extensive evaluations and ablation studies on multiple datasets, demonstrating the superiority of our proposed method.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [804]
标题:  Robust Overfitting Does Matter: Test-Time Adversarial Purification With  FGSM
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11448
作者:  Linyu Tang,  Lei Zhang
备注:  CVPR 2024
Abstract:Numerous studies have demonstrated the susceptibility of deep neural networks (DNNs) to subtle adversarial perturbations, prompting the development of many advanced adversarial defense methods aimed at mitigating adversarial attacks. Current defense strategies usually train DNNs for a specific adversarial attack method and can achieve good robustness in defense against this type of adversarial attack. Nevertheless, when subjected to evaluations involving unfamiliar attack modalities, empirical evidence reveals a pronounced deterioration in the robustness of DNNs. Meanwhile, there is a trade-off between the classification accuracy of clean examples and adversarial examples. Most defense methods often sacrifice the accuracy of clean examples in order to improve the adversarial robustness of DNNs. To alleviate these problems and enhance the overall robust generalization of DNNs, we propose the Test-Time Pixel-Level Adversarial Purification (TPAP) method. This approach is based on the robust overfitting characteristic of DNNs to the fast gradient sign method (FGSM) on training and test datasets. It utilizes FGSM for adversarial purification, to process images for purifying unknown adversarial perturbations from pixels at testing time in a "counter changes with changelessness" manner, thereby enhancing the defense capability of DNNs against various unknown adversarial attacks. Extensive experimental results show that our method can effectively improve both overall robust generalization of DNNs, notably over previous methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [805]
标题:  Motion-aware 3D Gaussian Splatting for Efficient Dynamic Scene  Reconstruction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11447
作者:  Zhiyang Guo,  Wengang Zhou,  Li Li,  Min Wang,  Houqiang Li
备注:  
Abstract:3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS) has become an emerging tool for dynamic scene reconstruction. However, existing methods focus mainly on extending static 3DGS into a time-variant representation, while overlooking the rich motion information carried by 2D observations, thus suffering from performance degradation and model redundancy. To address the above problem, we propose a novel motion-aware enhancement framework for dynamic scene reconstruction, which mines useful motion cues from optical flow to improve different paradigms of dynamic 3DGS. Specifically, we first establish a correspondence between 3D Gaussian movements and pixel-level flow. Then a novel flow augmentation method is introduced with additional insights into uncertainty and loss collaboration. Moreover, for the prevalent deformation-based paradigm that presents a harder optimization problem, a transient-aware deformation auxiliary module is proposed. We conduct extensive experiments on both multi-view and monocular scenes to verify the merits of our work. Compared with the baselines, our method shows significant superiority in both rendering quality and efficiency.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [806]
标题:  LLM Guided Evolution - The Automation of Models Advancing Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11446
作者:  Clint Morris,  Michael Jurado,  Jason Zutty
备注:  
Abstract:In the realm of machine learning, traditional model development and automated approaches like AutoML typically rely on layers of abstraction, such as tree-based or Cartesian genetic programming. Our study introduces "Guided Evolution" (GE), a novel framework that diverges from these methods by utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) to directly modify code. GE leverages LLMs for a more intelligent, supervised evolutionary process, guiding mutations and crossovers. Our unique "Evolution of Thought" (EoT) technique further enhances GE by enabling LLMs to reflect on and learn from the outcomes of previous mutations. This results in a self-sustaining feedback loop that augments decision-making in model evolution. GE maintains genetic diversity, crucial for evolutionary algorithms, by leveraging LLMs' capability to generate diverse responses from expertly crafted prompts and modulate model temperature. This not only accelerates the evolution process but also injects expert like creativity and insight into the process. Our application of GE in evolving the ExquisiteNetV2 model demonstrates its efficacy: the LLM-driven GE autonomously produced variants with improved accuracy, increasing from 92.52% to 93.34%, without compromising model compactness. This underscores the potential of LLMs to accelerate the traditional model design pipeline, enabling models to autonomously evolve and enhance their own designs.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [807]
标题:  Budget Recycling Differential Privacy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11445
作者:  Bo Jiang,  Jian Du,  Sagar Shamar,  Qiang Yan
备注:  
Abstract:Differential Privacy (DP) mechanisms usually {force} reduction in data utility by producing ``out-of-bound'' noisy results for a tight privacy budget. We introduce the Budget Recycling Differential Privacy (BR-DP) framework, designed to provide soft-bounded noisy outputs for a broad range of existing DP mechanisms. By ``soft-bounded," we refer to the mechanism's ability to release most outputs within a predefined error boundary, thereby improving utility and maintaining privacy simultaneously. The core of BR-DP consists of two components: a DP kernel responsible for generating a noisy answer per iteration, and a recycler that probabilistically recycles/regenerates or releases the noisy answer. We delve into the privacy accounting of BR-DP, culminating in the development of a budgeting principle that optimally sub-allocates the available budget between the DP kernel and the recycler. Furthermore, we introduce algorithms for tight BR-DP accounting in composition scenarios, and our findings indicate that BR-DP achieves reduced privacy leakage post-composition compared to DP. Additionally, we explore the concept of privacy amplification via subsampling within the BR-DP framework and propose optimal sampling rates for BR-DP across various queries. We experiment with real data, and the results demonstrate BR-DP's effectiveness in lifting the utility-privacy tradeoff provided by DP mechanisms.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Signal Processing (eess.SP)

**编号**: [808]
标题:  Boosting Continuous Emotion Recognition with Self-Pretraining using  Masked Autoencoders, Temporal Convolutional Networks, and Transformers
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11440
作者:  Weiwei Zhou,  Jiada Lu,  Chenkun Ling,  Weifeng Wang,  Shaowei Liu
备注:  
Abstract:Human emotion recognition holds a pivotal role in facilitating seamless human-computer interaction. This paper delineates our methodology in tackling the Valence-Arousal (VA) Estimation Challenge, Expression (Expr) Classification Challenge, and Action Unit (AU) Detection Challenge within the ambit of the 6th Workshop and Competition on Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-wild (ABAW). Our study advocates a novel approach aimed at refining continuous emotion recognition. We achieve this by initially harnessing pre-training with Masked Autoencoders (MAE) on facial datasets, followed by fine-tuning on the aff-wild2 dataset annotated with expression (Expr) labels. The pre-trained model serves as an adept visual feature extractor, thereby enhancing the model's robustness. Furthermore, we bolster the performance of continuous emotion recognition by integrating Temporal Convolutional Network (TCN) modules and Transformer Encoder modules into our framework.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [809]
标题:  StyleChat: Learning Recitation-Augmented Memory in LLMs for Stylized  Dialogue Generation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11439
作者:  Jinpeng Li,  Zekai Zhang,  Quan Tu,  Xin Cheng,  Dongyan Zhao,  Rui Yan
备注:  
Abstract:Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate superior performance in generative scenarios and have attracted widespread attention. Among them, stylized dialogue generation is essential in the context of LLMs for building intelligent and engaging dialogue agent. However the ability of LLMs is data-driven and limited by data bias, leading to poor performance on specific tasks. In particular, stylized dialogue generation suffers from a severe lack of supervised data. Furthermore, although many prompt-based methods have been proposed to accomplish specific tasks, their performance in complex real-world scenarios involving a wide variety of dialog styles further enhancement. In this work, we first introduce a stylized dialogue dataset StyleEval with 38 styles by leveraging the generative power of LLMs comprehensively, which has been carefully constructed with rigorous human-led quality control. Based on this, we propose the stylized dialogue framework StyleChat via recitation-augmented memory strategy and multi-task style learning strategy to promote generalization ability. To evaluate the effectiveness of our approach, we created a test benchmark that included both a generation task and a choice task to comprehensively evaluate trained models and assess whether styles and preferences are remembered and understood. Experimental results show that our proposed framework StyleChat outperforms all the baselines and helps to break the style boundary of LLMs.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [810]
标题:  Deep Holes of Twisted Reed-Solomon Codes
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11436
作者:  Weijun Fang,  Jingke Xu,  Ruiqi Zhu
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication
Abstract:The deep holes of a linear code are the vectors that achieve the maximum error distance to the code. There has been extensive research on the topic of deep holes in Reed-Solomon codes. As a generalization of Reed-Solomon codes, we investigate the problem of deep holes of a class of twisted Reed-Solomon codes in this paper. The covering radius and a standard class of deep holes of twisted Reed-Solomon codes ${\rm TRS}_k(\mathcal{A}, \theta)$ are obtained for a general evaluation set $\mathcal{A} \subseteq \mathbb{F}_q$. Furthermore, we consider the problem of determining all deep holes of the full-length twisted Reed-Solomon codes ${\rm TRS}_k(\mathbb{F}_q, \theta)$. Specifically, we prove that there are no other deep holes of ${\rm TRS}_k(\mathbb{F}_q, \theta)$ for $\frac{3q-8}{4} \leq k\leq q-4$ when $q$ is even, and $\frac{3q+2\sqrt{q}-7}{4} \leq k\leq q-4$ when $q$ is odd. We also completely determine their deep holes for $q-3 \leq k \leq q-1$.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT)

**编号**: [811]
标题:  InsCL: A Data-efficient Continual Learning Paradigm for Fine-tuning  Large Language Models with Instructions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11435
作者:  Yifan Wang,  Yafei Liu,  Chufan Shi,  Haoling Li,  Chen Chen,  Haonan Lu,  Yujiu Yang
备注:  Accepted by NAACL 2024
Abstract:Instruction tuning effectively optimizes Large Language Models (LLMs) for downstream tasks. Due to the changing environment in real-life applications, LLMs necessitate continual task-specific adaptation without catastrophic forgetting. Considering the heavy computational cost, replay-based Continual Learning (CL) methods are the simplest and most widely used for LLMs to address the forgetting issue. However, traditional replay-based methods do not fully utilize instructions to customize the replay strategy. In this work, we propose a novel paradigm called Instruction-based Continual Learning (InsCL). InsCL dynamically replays previous data based on task similarity, calculated by Wasserstein Distance with instructions. Moreover, we further introduce an Instruction Information Metric (InsInfo) to quantify the complexity and diversity of instructions. According to InsInfo, InsCL guides the replay process more inclined to high-quality data. We conduct extensive experiments over 16 tasks with different training orders, observing consistent performance improvements of InsCL. When all tasks have been trained, InsCL achieves performance gains of 3.0 Relative Gain compared with Random Replay, and 27.96 Relative Gain compared with No Replay.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [812]
标题:  Earth+: on-board satellite imagery compression leveraging historical  earth observations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11434
作者:  Kuntai Du,  Yihua Cheng,  Peder Olsen,  Shadi Noghabi,  Ranveer Chandra,  Junchen Jiang
备注:  
Abstract:With the increasing deployment of earth observation satellite constellations, the downlink (satellite-to-ground) capacity often limits the freshness, quality, and coverage of the imagery data available to applications on the ground. To overcome the downlink limitation, we present Earth+, a new satellite imagery compression system that, instead of compressing each image individually, pinpoints and downloads only recent imagery changes with respect to the history reference images. To minimize the amount of changes, it is critical to make reference images as fresh as possible. Earth+ enables each satellite to choose fresh reference images from not only its own history images but also past images of other satellites from an entire satellite constellation. To share reference images across satellites, Earth+ utilizes the limited capacity of the existing uplink (ground-to-satellite) by judiciously selecting and compressing reference images while still allowing accurate change detection. In short, Earth+ is the first to make reference-based compression efficient, by enabling constellation-wide sharing of fresh reference images across satellites. Our evaluation shows that Earth+ can reduce the downlink usage by a factor of 3.3 compared to state-of-the-art on-board image compression techniques while not sacrificing image quality, or using more on-board computing or storage resources, or more uplink bandwidth than currently available.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [813]
标题:  Demystifying Deep Reinforcement Learning-Based Autonomous Vehicle  Decision-Making
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11432
作者:  Hanxi Wan,  Pei Li,  Arpan Kusari
备注:  Submitted for peer-review
Abstract:With the advent of universal function approximators in the domain of reinforcement learning, the number of practical applications leveraging deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has exploded. Decision-making in automated driving tasks has emerged as a chief application among them, taking the sensor data or the higher-order kinematic variables as the input and providing a discrete choice or continuous control output. However, the black-box nature of the models presents an overwhelming limitation that restricts the real-world deployment of DRL in autonomous vehicles (AVs). Therefore, in this research work, we focus on the interpretability of an attention-based DRL framework. We use a continuous proximal policy optimization-based DRL algorithm as the baseline model and add a multi-head attention framework in an open-source AV simulation environment. We provide some analytical techniques for discussing the interpretability of the trained models in terms of explainability and causality for spatial and temporal correlations. We show that the weights in the first head encode the positions of the neighboring vehicles while the second head focuses on the leader vehicle exclusively. Also, the ego vehicle's action is causally dependent on the vehicles in the target lane spatially and temporally. Through these findings, we reliably show that these techniques can help practitioners decipher the results of the DRL algorithms.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [814]
标题:  A Novel Paradigm Boosting Translation Capabilities of Large Language  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11430
作者:  Jiaxin Guo,  Hao Yang,  Zongyao Li,  Daimeng Wei,  Hengchao Shang,  Xiaoyu Chen
备注:  Accepted in NAACL 2024
Abstract:This paper presents a study on strategies to enhance the translation capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in the context of machine translation (MT) tasks. The paper proposes a novel paradigm consisting of three stages: Secondary Pre-training using Extensive Monolingual Data, Continual Pre-training with Interlinear Text Format Documents, and Leveraging Source-Language Consistent Instruction for Supervised Fine-Tuning. Previous research on LLMs focused on various strategies for supervised fine-tuning (SFT), but their effectiveness has been limited. While traditional machine translation approaches rely on vast amounts of parallel bilingual data, our paradigm highlights the importance of using smaller sets of high-quality bilingual data. We argue that the focus should be on augmenting LLMs' cross-lingual alignment abilities during pre-training rather than solely relying on extensive bilingual data during SFT. Experimental results conducted using the Llama2 model, particularly on Chinese-Llama2 after monolingual augmentation, demonstrate the improved translation capabilities of LLMs. A significant contribution of our approach lies in Stage2: Continual Pre-training with Interlinear Text Format Documents, which requires less than 1B training data, making our method highly efficient. Additionally, in Stage3, we observed that setting instructions consistent with the source language benefits the supervised fine-tuning process. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach surpasses previous work and achieves superior performance compared to models such as NLLB-54B and GPT3.5-text-davinci-003, despite having a significantly smaller parameter count of only 7B or 13B. This achievement establishes our method as a pioneering strategy in the field of machine translation.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [815]
标题:  BAGS: Building Animatable Gaussian Splatting from a Monocular Video with  Diffusion Priors
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11427
作者:  Tingyang Zhang,  Qingzhe Gao,  Weiyu Li,  Libin Liu,  Baoquan Chen
备注:  this https URL
Abstract:Animatable 3D reconstruction has significant applications across various fields, primarily relying on artists' handcraft creation. Recently, some studies have successfully constructed animatable 3D models from monocular videos. However, these approaches require sufficient view coverage of the object within the input video and typically necessitate significant time and computational costs for training and rendering. This limitation restricts the practical applications. In this work, we propose a method to build animatable 3D Gaussian Splatting from monocular video with diffusion priors. The 3D Gaussian representations significantly accelerate the training and rendering process, and the diffusion priors allow the method to learn 3D models with limited viewpoints. We also present the rigid regularization to enhance the utilization of the priors. We perform an extensive evaluation across various real-world videos, demonstrating its superior performance compared to the current state-of-the-art methods.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [816]
标题:  ETH-Tight Algorithm for Cycle Packing on Unit Disk Graphs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11426
作者:  Shinwoo An,  Eunjin Oh
备注:  In SoCG'24
Abstract:In this paper, we consider the Cycle Packing problem on unit disk graphs defined as follows. Given a unit disk graph G with n vertices and an integer k, the goal is to find a set of $k$ vertex-disjoint cycles of G if it exists. Our algorithm runs in time $2^{O(\sqrt k)}n^{O(1)}$. This improves the $2^{O(\sqrt k\log k)}n^{O(1)}$-time algorithm by Fomin et al. [SODA 2012, ICALP 2017]. Moreover, our algorithm is optimal assuming the exponential-time hypothesis.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Computational Geometry (cs.CG)

**编号**: [817]
标题:  Narrative Feature or Structured Feature? A Study of Large Language  Models to Identify Cancer Patients at Risk of Heart Failure
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11425
作者:  Ziyi Chen,  Mengyuan Zhang,  Mustafa Mohammed Ahmed,  Yi Guo,  Thomas J. George,  Jiang Bian,  Yonghui Wu
备注:  9 pages, 2 figures, 5 tables
Abstract:Cancer treatments are known to introduce cardiotoxicity, negatively impacting outcomes and survivorship. Identifying cancer patients at risk of heart failure (HF) is critical to improving cancer treatment outcomes and safety. This study examined machine learning (ML) models to identify cancer patients at risk of HF using electronic health records (EHRs), including traditional ML, Time-Aware long short-term memory (T-LSTM), and large language models (LLMs) using novel narrative features derived from the structured medical codes. We identified a cancer cohort of 12,806 patients from the University of Florida Health, diagnosed with lung, breast, and colorectal cancers, among which 1,602 individuals developed HF after cancer. The LLM, GatorTron-3.9B, achieved the best F1 scores, outperforming the traditional support vector machines by 39%, the T-LSTM deep learning model by 7%, and a widely used transformer model, BERT, by 5.6%. The analysis shows that the proposed narrative features remarkably increased feature density and improved performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [818]
标题:  Benchmarking the Robustness of UAV Tracking Against Common Corruptions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11424
作者:  Xiaoqiong Liu,  Yunhe Feng,  Shu Hu,  Xiaohui Yuan,  Heng Fan
备注:  
Abstract:The robustness of unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) tracking is crucial in many tasks like surveillance and robotics. Despite its importance, little attention is paid to the performance of UAV trackers under common corruptions due to lack of a dedicated platform. Addressing this, we propose UAV-C, a large-scale benchmark for assessing robustness of UAV trackers under common corruptions. Specifically, UAV-C is built upon two popular UAV datasets by introducing 18 common corruptions from 4 representative categories including adversarial, sensor, blur, and composite corruptions in different levels. Finally, UAV-C contains more than 10K sequences. To understand the robustness of existing UAV trackers against corruptions, we extensively evaluate 12 representative algorithms on UAV-C. Our study reveals several key findings: 1) Current trackers are vulnerable to corruptions, indicating more attention needed in enhancing the robustness of UAV trackers; 2) When accompanying together, composite corruptions result in more severe degradation to trackers; and 3) While each tracker has its unique performance profile, some trackers may be more sensitive to specific corruptions. By releasing UAV-C, we hope it, along with comprehensive analysis, serves as a valuable resource for advancing the robustness of UAV tracking against corruption. Our UAV-C will be available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [819]
标题:  VmambaIR: Visual State Space Model for Image Restoration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11423
作者:  Yuan Shi,  Bin Xia,  Xiaoyu Jin,  Xing Wang,  Tianyu Zhao,  Xin Xia,  Xuefeng Xiao,  Wenming Yang
备注:  23 pages
Abstract:Image restoration is a critical task in low-level computer vision, aiming to restore high-quality images from degraded inputs. Various models, such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs), generative adversarial networks (GANs), transformers, and diffusion models (DMs), have been employed to address this problem with significant impact. However, CNNs have limitations in capturing long-range dependencies. DMs require large prior models and computationally intensive denoising steps. Transformers have powerful modeling capabilities but face challenges due to quadratic complexity with input image size. To address these challenges, we propose VmambaIR, which introduces State Space Models (SSMs) with linear complexity into comprehensive image restoration tasks. We utilize a Unet architecture to stack our proposed Omni Selective Scan (OSS) blocks, consisting of an OSS module and an Efficient Feed-Forward Network (EFFN). Our proposed omni selective scan mechanism overcomes the unidirectional modeling limitation of SSMs by efficiently modeling image information flows in all six directions. Furthermore, we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of our VmambaIR across multiple image restoration tasks, including image deraining, single image super-resolution, and real-world image super-resolution. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our proposed VmambaIR achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance with much fewer computational resources and parameters. Our research highlights the potential of state space models as promising alternatives to the transformer and CNN architectures in serving as foundational frameworks for next-generation low-level visual tasks.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [820]
标题:  FastDecode: High-Throughput GPU-Efficient LLM Serving using  Heterogeneous Pipelines
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11421
作者:  Jiaao He,  Jidong Zhai
备注:  15 pages, 15 figures
Abstract:Cost of serving large language models (LLM) is high, but the expensive and scarce GPUs are poorly efficient when generating tokens sequentially, unless the batch of sequences is enlarged. However, the batch size is limited by some constantly reused intermediate results, namely KV-Cache. They occupy too much memory to fit more sequences into a GPU simultaneously. While they could be offloaded to host memory, the CPU-GPU bandwidth is an inevitable bottleneck. We find a way to decompose the transformer models into two parts of different characteristics, one of which includes the memory-bound KV-Cache accessing. Our key insight is that the aggregated memory capacity, bandwidth, and computing power of CPUs across multiple nodes is an efficient option to process this part. Performance improvement comes from reduced data transmission overhead and boosted GPU throughput to process the other model part. Moreover, we address efficiency challenges brought by heterogeneity at both temporal and inter-device scopes using scheduling and performance modeling techniques. Evaluation results show that our system achieves 1.88x - 5.04x the throughput of vLLM when serving modern LLMs with the same GPU.
Subjects: Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC); Performance (cs.PF)

**编号**: [821]
标题:  Variational Sampling of Temporal Trajectories
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11418
作者:  Jurijs Nazarovs,  Zhichun Huang,  Xingjian Zhen,  Sourav Pal,  Rudrasis Chakraborty,  Vikas Singh
备注:  
Abstract:A deterministic temporal process can be determined by its trajectory, an element in the product space of (a) initial condition $z_0 \in \mathcal{Z}$ and (b) transition function $f: (\mathcal{Z}, \mathcal{T}) \to \mathcal{Z}$ often influenced by the control of the underlying dynamical system. Existing methods often model the transition function as a differential equation or as a recurrent neural network. Despite their effectiveness in predicting future measurements, few results have successfully established a method for sampling and statistical inference of trajectories using neural networks, partially due to constraints in the parameterization. In this work, we introduce a mechanism to learn the distribution of trajectories by parameterizing the transition function $f$ explicitly as an element in a function space. Our framework allows efficient synthesis of novel trajectories, while also directly providing a convenient tool for inference, i.e., uncertainty estimation, likelihood evaluations and out of distribution detection for abnormal trajectories. These capabilities can have implications for various downstream tasks, e.g., simulation and evaluation for reinforcement learning.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [822]
标题:  DreamSampler: Unifying Diffusion Sampling and Score Distillation for  Image Manipulation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11415
作者:  Jeongsol Kim,  Geon Yeong Park,  Jong Chul Ye
备注:  
Abstract:Reverse sampling and score-distillation have emerged as main workhorses in recent years for image manipulation using latent diffusion models (LDMs). While reverse diffusion sampling often requires adjustments of LDM architecture or feature engineering, score distillation offers a simple yet powerful model-agnostic approach, but it is often prone to mode-collapsing. To address these limitations and leverage the strengths of both approaches, here we introduce a novel framework called {\em DreamSampler}, which seamlessly integrates these two distinct approaches through the lens of regularized latent optimization. Similar to score-distillation, DreamSampler is a model-agnostic approach applicable to any LDM architecture, but it allows both distillation and reverse sampling with additional guidance for image editing and reconstruction. Through experiments involving image editing, SVG reconstruction and etc, we demonstrate the competitive performance of DreamSampler compared to existing approaches, while providing new applications.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [823]
标题:  Table-Lookup MAC: Scalable Processing of Quantised Neural Networks in  FPGA Soft Logic
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11414
作者:  Daniel Gerlinghoff,  Benjamin Chen Ming Choong,  Rick Siow Mong Goh,  Weng-Fai Wong,  Tao Luo
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in neural network quantisation have yielded remarkable outcomes, with three-bit networks reaching state-of-the-art full-precision accuracy in complex tasks. These achievements present valuable opportunities for accelerating neural networks by computing in reduced precision. Implementing it on FPGAs can take advantage of bit-level reconfigurability, which is not available on conventional CPUs and GPUs. Simultaneously, the high data intensity of neural network processing has inspired computing-in-memory paradigms, including on FPGA platforms. By programming the effects of trained model weights as lookup operations in soft logic, the transfer of weight data from memory units can be avoided, alleviating the memory bottleneck. However, previous methods face poor scalability - the high logic utilisation limiting them to small networks/sub-networks of binary models with low accuracy. In this paper, we introduce Table Lookup Multiply-Accumulate (TLMAC) as a framework to compile and optimise quantised neural networks for scalable lookup-based processing. TLMAC clusters and maps unique groups of weights to lookup-based processing elements, enabling highly parallel computation while taking advantage of parameter redundancy. Further place and route algorithms are proposed to reduce LUT utilisation and routing congestion. We demonstrate that TLMAC significantly improves the scalability of previous related works. Our efficient logic mapping and high degree of reuse enables entire ImageNet-scale quantised models with full-precision accuracy to be implemented using lookup-based computing on one commercially available FPGA.
Subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)

**编号**: [824]
标题:  Dynamic Contexts for Generating Suggestion Questions in RAG Based  Conversational Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11413
作者:  Anuja Tayal,  Aman Tyagi
备注:  4 pages , 1 figure, accepted at WWW'24 workshop PromptEng
Abstract:When interacting with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)-based conversational agents, the users must carefully craft their queries to be understood correctly. Yet, understanding the system's capabilities can be challenging for the users, leading to ambiguous questions that necessitate further clarification. This work aims to bridge the gap by developing a suggestion question generator. To generate suggestion questions, our approach involves utilizing dynamic context, which includes both dynamic few-shot examples and dynamically retrieved contexts. Through experiments, we show that the dynamic contexts approach can generate better suggestion questions as compared to other prompting approaches.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [825]
标题:  Expert Composer Policy: Scalable Skill Repertoire for Quadruped Robots
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11412
作者:  Guilherme Christmann,  Ying-Sheng Luo,  Wei-Chao Chen
备注:  ICRA 2024
Abstract:We propose the expert composer policy, a framework to reliably expand the skill repertoire of quadruped agents. The composer policy links pair of experts via transitions to a sampled target state, allowing experts to be composed sequentially. Each expert specializes in a single skill, such as a locomotion gait or a jumping motion. Instead of a hierarchical or mixture-of-experts architecture, we train a single composer policy in an independent process that is not conditioned on the other expert policies. By reusing the same composer policy, our approach enables adding new experts without affecting existing ones, enabling incremental repertoire expansion and preserving original motion quality. We measured the transition success rate of 72 transition pairs and achieved an average success rate of 99.99\%, which is over 10\% higher than the baseline random approach, and outperforms other state-of-the-art methods. Using domain randomization during training we ensure a successful transfer to the real world, where we achieve an average transition success rate of 97.22\% (N=360) in our experiments.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [826]
标题:  Laconic: Streamlined Load Balancers for SmartNICs
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11411
作者:  Tianyi Cui,  Chenxingyu Zhao,  Wei Zhang,  Kaiyuan Zhang,  Arvind Krishnamurthy
备注:  
Abstract:Load balancers are pervasively used inside today's clouds to scalably distribute network requests across data center servers. Given the extensive use of load balancers and their associated operating costs, several efforts have focused on improving their efficiency by implementing Layer-4 load-balancing logic within the kernel or using hardware acceleration. This work explores whether the more complex and connection-oriented Layer-7 load-balancing capability can also benefit from hardware acceleration. In particular, we target the offloading of load-balancing capability onto programmable SmartNICs. We fully leverage the cost and energy efficiency of SmartNICs using three key ideas. First, we argue that a full and complex TCP/IP stack is not required for Layer-7 load balancers and instead propose a lightweight forwarding agent on the SmartNIC. Second, we develop connection management data structures with a high degree of concurrency with minimal synchronization when executed on multi-core SmartNICs. Finally, we describe how the load-balancing logic could be accelerated using custom packet-processing accelerators on SmartNICs. We prototype Laconic on two types of SmartNIC hardware, achieving over 150 Gbps throughput using all cores on BlueField-2, while a single SmartNIC core achieves 8.7x higher throughput and comparable latency to Nginx on a single x86 core.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [827]
标题:  Well-balanced path-conservative discontinuous Galerkin methods with  equilibrium preserving space for two-layer shallow water equations
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11409
作者:  Jiahui Zhang,  Yinhua Xia,  Yan Xu
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces well-balanced path-conservative discontinuous Galerkin (DG) methods for two-layer shallow water equations, ensuring exactness for both still water and moving water equilibrium steady states. The approach involves approximating the equilibrium variables within the DG piecewise polynomial space, while expressing the DG scheme in the form of path-conservative schemes. To robustly handle the nonconservative products governing momentum exchange between the layers, we incorporate the theory of Dal Maso, LeFloch, and Murat (DLM) within the DG method. Additionally, linear segment paths connecting the equilibrium functions are chosen to guarantee the well-balanced property of the resulting scheme. The simple ``lake-at-rest" steady state is naturally satisfied without any modification, while a specialized treatment of the numerical flux is crucial for preserving the moving water steady state. Extensive numerical examples in one and two dimensions validate the exact equilibrium preservation of the steady state solutions and demonstrate its high-order accuracy. The performance of the method and high-resolution results further underscore its potential as a robust approach for nonconservative hyperbolic balance laws.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [828]
标题:  Layer-diverse Negative Sampling for Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11408
作者:  Wei Duan,  Jie Lu,  Yu Guang Wang,  Junyu Xuan
备注:  Published in Transactions on Machine Learning Research (03/2024)
Abstract:Graph neural networks (GNNs) are a powerful solution for various structure learning applications due to their strong representation capabilities for graph data. However, traditional GNNs, relying on message-passing mechanisms that gather information exclusively from first-order neighbours (known as positive samples), can lead to issues such as over-smoothing and over-squashing. To mitigate these issues, we propose a layer-diverse negative sampling method for message-passing propagation. This method employs a sampling matrix within a determinantal point process, which transforms the candidate set into a space and selectively samples from this space to generate negative samples. To further enhance the diversity of the negative samples during each forward pass, we develop a space-squeezing method to achieve layer-wise diversity in multi-layer GNNs. Experiments on various real-world graph datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in improving the diversity of negative samples and overall learning performance. Moreover, adding negative samples dynamically changes the graph's topology, thus with the strong potential to improve the expressiveness of GNNs and reduce the risk of over-squashing.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [829]
标题:  Embracing the Generative AI Revolution: Advancing Tertiary Education in  Cybersecurity with GPT
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11402
作者:  Raza Nowrozy,  David Jam
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid advancement of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies, particularly Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) models such as ChatGPT, has the potential to significantly impact cybersecurity. In this study, we investigated the impact of GPTs, specifically ChatGPT, on tertiary education in cybersecurity, and provided recommendations for universities to adapt their curricula to meet the evolving needs of the industry. Our research highlighted the importance of understanding the alignment between GPT's ``mental model'' and human cognition, as well as the enhancement of GPT capabilities to human skills based on Bloom's taxonomy. By analyzing current educational practices and the alignment of curricula with industry requirements, we concluded that universities providing practical degrees like cybersecurity should align closely with industry demand and embrace the inevitable generative AI revolution, while applying stringent ethics oversight to safeguard responsible GPT usage. We proposed a set of recommendations focused on updating university curricula, promoting agility within universities, fostering collaboration between academia, industry, and policymakers, and evaluating and assessing educational outcomes.
Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [830]
标题:  Scene-LLM: Extending Language Model for 3D Visual Understanding and  Reasoning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11401
作者:  Rao Fu,  Jingyu Liu,  Xilun Chen,  Yixin Nie,  Wenhan Xiong
备注:  
Abstract:This paper introduces Scene-LLM, a 3D-visual-language model that enhances embodied agents' abilities in interactive 3D indoor environments by integrating the reasoning strengths of Large Language Models (LLMs). Scene-LLM adopts a hybrid 3D visual feature representation, that incorporates dense spatial information and supports scene state updates. The model employs a projection layer to efficiently project these features in the pre-trained textual embedding space, enabling effective interpretation of 3D visual information. Unique to our approach is the integration of both scene-level and ego-centric 3D information. This combination is pivotal for interactive planning, where scene-level data supports global planning and ego-centric data is important for localization. Notably, we use ego-centric 3D frame features for feature alignment, an efficient technique that enhances the model's ability to align features of small objects within the scene. Our experiments with Scene-LLM demonstrate its strong capabilities in dense captioning, question answering, and interactive planning. We believe Scene-LLM advances the field of 3D visual understanding and reasoning, offering new possibilities for sophisticated agent interactions in indoor settings.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [831]
标题:  X-LLaVA: Optimizing Bilingual Large Vision-Language Alignment
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11399
作者:  Dongjae Shin,  Hyunseok Lim,  Inho Won,  Changsu Choi,  Minjun Kim,  Seungwoo Song,  Hangyeol Yoo,  Sangmin Kim,  Kyungtae Lim
备注:  
Abstract:The impressive development of large language models (LLMs) is expanding into the realm of large multimodal models (LMMs), which incorporate multiple types of data beyond text. However, the nature of multimodal models leads to significant expenses in the creation of training data. Furthermore, constructing multilingual data for LMMs presents its own set of challenges due to language diversity and complexity. Therefore, in this study, we propose two cost-effective methods to solve this problem: (1) vocabulary expansion and pretraining of multilingual LLM for specific languages, and (2) automatic and elaborate construction of multimodal datasets using GPT4-V. Based on015 these methods, we constructed a 91K English-Korean-Chinese multilingual, multimodal training dataset. Additionally, we developed a bilingual multimodal model that exhibits excellent performance in both Korean and English, surpassing existing approaches.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [832]
标题:  Defense Against Adversarial Attacks on No-Reference Image Quality Models  with Gradient Norm Regularization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11397
作者:  Yujia Liu,  Chenxi Yang,  Dingquan Li,  Jianhao Ding,  Tingting Jiang
备注:  accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:The task of No-Reference Image Quality Assessment (NR-IQA) is to estimate the quality score of an input image without additional information. NR-IQA models play a crucial role in the media industry, aiding in performance evaluation and optimization guidance. However, these models are found to be vulnerable to adversarial attacks, which introduce imperceptible perturbations to input images, resulting in significant changes in predicted scores. In this paper, we propose a defense method to improve the stability in predicted scores when attacked by small perturbations, thus enhancing the adversarial robustness of NR-IQA models. To be specific, we present theoretical evidence showing that the magnitude of score changes is related to the $\ell_1$ norm of the model's gradient with respect to the input image. Building upon this theoretical foundation, we propose a norm regularization training strategy aimed at reducing the $\ell_1$ norm of the gradient, thereby boosting the robustness of NR-IQA models. Experiments conducted on four NR-IQA baseline models demonstrate the effectiveness of our strategy in reducing score changes in the presence of adversarial attacks. To the best of our knowledge, this work marks the first attempt to defend against adversarial attacks on NR-IQA models. Our study offers valuable insights into the adversarial robustness of NR-IQA models and provides a foundation for future research in this area.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Image and Video Processing (eess.IV)

**编号**: [833]
标题:  Beyond Uncertainty: Risk-Aware Active View Acquisition for Safe Robot  Navigation and 3D Scene Understanding with FisherRF
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11396
作者:  Guangyi Liu,  Wen Jiang,  Boshu Lei,  Vivek Pandey,  Kostas Daniilidis,  Nader Motee
备注:  
Abstract:This work proposes a novel approach to bolster both the robot's risk assessment and safety measures while deepening its understanding of 3D scenes, which is achieved by leveraging Radiance Field (RF) models and 3D Gaussian Splatting. To further enhance these capabilities, we incorporate additional sampled views from the environment with the RF model. One of our key contributions is the introduction of Risk-aware Environment Masking (RaEM), which prioritizes crucial information by selecting the next-best-view that maximizes the expected information gain. This targeted approach aims to minimize uncertainties surrounding the robot's path and enhance the safety of its navigation. Our method offers a dual benefit: improved robot safety and increased efficiency in risk-aware 3D scene reconstruction and understanding. Extensive experiments in real-world scenarios demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach, highlighting its potential to establish a robust and safety-focused framework for active robot exploration and 3D scene understanding.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [834]
标题:  Automated data processing and feature engineering for deep learning and  big data applications: a survey
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11395
作者:  Alhassan Mumuni,  Fuseini Mumuni
备注:  Journal of Information and Intelligence (2024)
Abstract:Modern approach to artificial intelligence (AI) aims to design algorithms that learn directly from data. This approach has achieved impressive results and has contributed significantly to the progress of AI, particularly in the sphere of supervised deep learning. It has also simplified the design of machine learning systems as the learning process is highly automated. However, not all data processing tasks in conventional deep learning pipelines have been automated. In most cases data has to be manually collected, preprocessed and further extended through data augmentation before they can be effective for training. Recently, special techniques for automating these tasks have emerged. The automation of data processing tasks is driven by the need to utilize large volumes of complex, heterogeneous data for machine learning and big data applications. Today, end-to-end automated data processing systems based on automated machine learning (AutoML) techniques are capable of taking raw data and transforming them into useful features for Big Data tasks by automating all intermediate processing stages. In this work, we present a thorough review of approaches for automating data processing tasks in deep learning pipelines, including automated data preprocessing--e.g., data cleaning, labeling, missing data imputation, and categorical data encoding--as well as data augmentation (including synthetic data generation using generative AI methods) and feature engineering--specifically, automated feature extraction, feature construction and feature selection. In addition to automating specific data processing tasks, we discuss the use of AutoML methods and tools to simultaneously optimize all stages of the machine learning pipeline.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [835]
标题:  Investigating the Benefits of Projection Head for Representation  Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11391
作者:  Yihao Xue,  Eric Gan,  Jiayi Ni,  Siddharth Joshi,  Baharan Mirzasoleiman
备注:  
Abstract:An effective technique for obtaining high-quality representations is adding a projection head on top of the encoder during training, then discarding it and using the pre-projection representations. Despite its proven practical effectiveness, the reason behind the success of this technique is poorly understood. The pre-projection representations are not directly optimized by the loss function, raising the question: what makes them better? In this work, we provide a rigorous theoretical answer to this question. We start by examining linear models trained with self-supervised contrastive loss. We reveal that the implicit bias of training algorithms leads to layer-wise progressive feature weighting, where features become increasingly unequal as we go deeper into the layers. Consequently, lower layers tend to have more normalized and less specialized representations. We theoretically characterize scenarios where such representations are more beneficial, highlighting the intricate interplay between data augmentation and input features. Additionally, we demonstrate that introducing non-linearity into the network allows lower layers to learn features that are completely absent in higher layers. Finally, we show how this mechanism improves the robustness in supervised contrastive learning and supervised learning. We empirically validate our results through various experiments on CIFAR-10/100, UrbanCars and shifted versions of ImageNet. We also introduce a potential alternative to projection head, which offers a more interpretable and controllable design.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [836]
标题:  Traffic Weaver: semi-synthetic time-varying traffic generator based on  averaged time series
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11388
作者:  Piotr Lechowicz,  Aleksandra Knapińska,  Adam Włodarczyk,  Krzysztof Walkowiak
备注:  11 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Traffic Weaver is a Python package developed to generate a semi-synthetic signal (time series) with finer granularity, based on averaged time series, in a manner that, upon averaging, closely matches the original signal provided. The key components utilized to recreate the signal encompass oversampling with a given strategy, stretching to match the integral of the original time series, smoothing, repeating, applying trend, and adding noise. The primary motivation behind Traffic Weaver is to furnish semi-synthetic time-varying traffic in telecommunication networks, facilitating the development and validation of traffic prediction models, as well as aiding in the deployment of network optimization algorithms tailored for time-varying traffic.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [837]
标题:  Holistic HMI Design for Automated Vehicles: Bridging In-Vehicle and  External Communication
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11386
作者:  Haoyu Dong,  Tram Thi Minh Tran,  Pavlo Bazilinskyy,  Marius Hoggenmüller,  Debargha Dey,  Silvia Cazacu,  Mervyn Franssen,  Ruolin Gao
备注:  
Abstract:As the field of automated vehicles (AVs) advances, it has become increasingly critical to develop human-machine interfaces (HMI) for both internal and external communication. Critical dialogue is emerging around the potential necessity for a holistic approach to HMI designs, which promotes the integration of both in-vehicle user and external road user perspectives. This approach aims to create a unified and coherent experience for different stakeholders interacting with AVs. This workshop seeks to bring together designers, engineers, researchers, and other stakeholders to delve into relevant use cases, exploring the potential advantages and challenges of this approach. The insights generated from this workshop aim to inform further design and research in the development of coherent HMIs for AVs, ultimately for more seamless integration of AVs into existing traffic.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [838]
标题:  Stochastic approach for elliptic problems in perforated domains
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11385
作者:  Jihun Han,  Yoonsang Lee
备注:  18 pages, 6 figures
Abstract:A wide range of applications in science and engineering involve a PDE model in a domain with perforations, such as perforated metals or air filters. Solving such perforated domain problems suffers from computational challenges related to resolving the scale imposed by the geometries of perforations. We propose a neural network-based mesh-free approach for perforated domain problems. The method is robust and efficient in capturing various configuration scales, including the averaged macroscopic behavior of the solution that involves a multiscale nature induced by small perforations. The new approach incorporates the derivative-free loss method that uses a stochastic representation or the Feynman-Kac formulation. In particular, we implement the Neumann boundary condition for the derivative-free loss method to handle the interface between the domain and perforations. A suite of stringent numerical tests is provided to support the proposed method's efficacy in handling various perforation scales.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Probability (math.PR)

**编号**: [839]
标题:  A Systematic Review of XR-based Remote Human-Robot Interaction Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11384
作者:  Xian Wang,  Luyao Shen,  Lik-Hang Lee
备注:  
Abstract:This survey provides an exhaustive review of the applications of extended reality (XR) technologies in the field of remote human-computer interaction (HRI). We developed a systematic search strategy based on the PRISMA methodology. From the initial 2,561 articles selected, 100 research papers that met our inclusion criteria were included. We categorized and summarized the domain in detail, delving into XR technologies, including augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), and mixed reality (MR), and their applications in facilitating intuitive and effective remote control and interaction with robotic systems.The survey highlights existing articles on the application of XR technologies, user experience enhancement, and various interaction designs for XR in remote HRI, providing insights into current trends and future directions. We also identified potential gaps and opportunities for future research to improve remote HRI systems through XR technology to guide and inform future XR and robotics research.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [840]
标题:  On the Benefits of GPU Sample-Based Stochastic Predictive Controllers  for Legged Locomotion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11383
作者:  Giulio Turrisi,  Valerio Modugno,  Lorenzo Amatucci,  Dimitrios Kanoulas,  Claudio Semini
备注:  
Abstract:Quadrupedal robots excel in mobility, navigating complex terrains with agility. However, their complex control systems present challenges that are still far from being fully addressed. In this paper, we introduce the use of Sample-Based Stochastic control strategies for quadrupedal robots, as an alternative to traditional optimal control laws. We show that Sample-Based Stochastic methods, supported by GPU acceleration, can be effectively applied to real quadruped robots. In particular, in this work, we focus on achieving gait frequency adaptation, a notable challenge in quadrupedal locomotion for gradient-based methods. To validate the effectiveness of Sample-Based Stochastic controllers we test two distinct approaches for quadrupedal robots and compare them against a conventional gradient-based Model Predictive Control system. Our findings, validated both in simulation and on a real 21Kg Aliengo quadruped, demonstrate that our method is on par with a traditional Model Predictive Control strategy when the robot is subject to zero or moderate disturbance, while it surpasses gradient-based methods in handling sustained external disturbances, thanks to the straightforward gait adaptation strategy that is possible to achieve within their formulation.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [841]
标题:  Can LLM-Augmented autonomous agents cooperate?, An evaluation of their  cooperative capabilities through Melting Pot
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11381
作者:  Manuel Mosquera,  Juan Sebastian Pinzon,  Manuel Rios,  Yesid Fonseca,  Luis Felipe Giraldo,  Nicanor Quijano,  Ruben Manrique
备注:  
Abstract:As the field of AI continues to evolve, a significant dimension of this progression is the development of Large Language Models and their potential to enhance multi-agent artificial intelligence systems. This paper explores the cooperative capabilities of Large Language Model-augmented Autonomous Agents (LAAs) using the well-known Meltin Pot environments along with reference models such as GPT4 and GPT3.5. Preliminary results suggest that while these agents demonstrate a propensity for cooperation, they still struggle with effective collaboration in given environments, emphasizing the need for more robust architectures. The study's contributions include an abstraction layer to adapt Melting Pot game scenarios for LLMs, the implementation of a reusable architecture for LLM-mediated agent development - which includes short and long-term memories and different cognitive modules, and the evaluation of cooperation capabilities using a set of metrics tied to the Melting Pot's "Commons Harvest" game. The paper closes, by discussing the limitations of the current architectural framework and the potential of a new set of modules that fosters better cooperation among LAAs.
Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [842]
标题:  Boosting Order-Preserving and Transferability for Neural Architecture  Search: a Joint Architecture Refined Search and Fine-tuning Approach
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11380
作者:  Beichen Zhang,  Xiaoxing Wang,  Xiaohan Qin,  Junchi Yan
备注:  Accepted by CVPR2024
Abstract:Supernet is a core component in many recent Neural Architecture Search (NAS) methods. It not only helps embody the search space but also provides a (relative) estimation of the final performance of candidate architectures. Thus, it is critical that the top architectures ranked by a supernet should be consistent with those ranked by true performance, which is known as the order-preserving ability. In this work, we analyze the order-preserving ability on the whole search space (global) and a sub-space of top architectures (local), and empirically show that the local order-preserving for current two-stage NAS methods still need to be improved. To rectify this, we propose a novel concept of Supernet Shifting, a refined search strategy combining architecture searching with supernet fine-tuning. Specifically, apart from evaluating, the training loss is also accumulated in searching and the supernet is updated every iteration. Since superior architectures are sampled more frequently in evolutionary searching, the supernet is encouraged to focus on top architectures, thus improving local order-preserving. Besides, a pre-trained supernet is often un-reusable for one-shot methods. We show that Supernet Shifting can fulfill transferring supernet to a new dataset. Specifically, the last classifier layer will be unset and trained through evolutionary searching. Comprehensive experiments show that our method has better order-preserving ability and can find a dominating architecture. Moreover, the pre-trained supernet can be easily transferred into a new dataset with no loss of performance.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [843]
标题:  The Role of Extended Horizon Methodology in Renewable-Dense Grids With  Inter-Day Long-Duration Energy Storage
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11379
作者:  Amogh A. Thatte,  Sourabh Dalvi,  Vincent Carag,  Jiazi Zhang,  Jennie Jorgenson,  Omar J. Guerra
备注:  5 pages, 3 figures, IEEE PES GM 2024 accepted paper
Abstract:This study addresses the challenges in optimizing long-duration energy storage (LDES) dispatch within future power systems featuring high integration of variable renewable energy (VRE). The research focuses on conducting a comparative analysis between traditional and extended horizon methods for the optimization of LDES dispatch, using open-source and commercial production cost models (PCMs), tested on a futuristic Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) grid. The findings indicate that, despite its complexity and longer solution times, the extended horizon approach demonstrates superior performance in LDES dispatch and effectively reduces the impact of degenerate solutions in sequential simulations. This study underscores the trade-offs between computational efficiency and improvement in storage dispatch, which is crucial for future energy systems. The analysis highlights the necessity of addressing the degeneracy issue in storage dispatch in grids dominated by zero operating cost VRE generators and low operating cost energy storage devices. Additionally, the research reveals revenue discrepancies for LDES operators across different models, a consequence of the persistent presence of degeneracy in high VRE systems. These findings suggest an urgent need for refined modeling techniques in the planning and operation of future energy systems.
Subjects: Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [844]
标题:  A Review of Virtual Reality Studies on Autonomous Vehicle--Pedestrian  Interaction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11378
作者:  Tram Thi Minh Tran,  Callum Parker,  Martin Tomitsch
备注:  
Abstract:An increasing number of studies employ virtual reality (VR) to evaluate interactions between autonomous vehicles (AVs) and pedestrians. VR simulators are valued for their cost-effectiveness, flexibility in developing various traffic scenarios, safe conduct of user studies, and acceptable ecological validity. Reviewing the literature between 2010 and 2020, we found 31 empirical studies using VR as a testing apparatus for both implicit and explicit communication. By performing a systematic analysis, we identified current coverage of critical use cases, obtained a comprehensive account of factors influencing pedestrian behavior in simulated traffic scenarios, and assessed evaluation measures. Based on the findings, we present a set of recommendations for implementing VR pedestrian simulators and propose directions for future research.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [845]
标题:  Simulating Wearable Urban Augmented Reality Experiences in VR: Lessons  Learnt from Designing Two Future Urban Interfaces
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11377
作者:  Tram Thi Minh Tran,  Callum Parker,  Marius Hoggenmüller,  Luke Hespanhol,  Martin Tomitsch
备注:  
Abstract:Augmented reality (AR) has the potential to fundamentally change how people engage with increasingly interactive urban environments. However, many challenges exist in designing and evaluating these new urban AR experiences, such as technical constraints and safety concerns associated with outdoor AR. We contribute to this domain by assessing the use of virtual reality (VR) for simulating wearable urban AR experiences, allowing participants to interact with future AR interfaces in a realistic, safe and controlled setting. This paper describes two wearable urban AR applications (pedestrian navigation and autonomous mobility) simulated in VR. Based on a thematic analysis of interview data collected across the two studies, we found that the VR simulation successfully elicited feedback on the functional benefits of AR concepts and the potential impact of urban contextual factors, such as safety concerns, attentional capacity, and social considerations. At the same time, we highlighted the limitations of this approach in terms of assessing the AR interface's visual quality and providing exhaustive contextual information. The paper concludes with recommendations for simulating wearable urban AR experiences in VR.
Subjects: Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [846]
标题:  ShapeFormer: Shape Prior Visible-to-Amodal Transformer-based Amodal  Instance Segmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11376
作者:  Minh Tran,  Winston Bounsavy,  Khoa Vo,  Anh Nguyen,  Tri Nguyen,  Ngan Le
备注:  Accepted to IJCNN 2024
Abstract:Amodal Instance Segmentation (AIS) presents a challenging task as it involves predicting both visible and occluded parts of objects within images. Existing AIS methods rely on a bidirectional approach, encompassing both the transition from amodal features to visible features (amodal-to-visible) and from visible features to amodal features (visible-to-amodal). Our observation shows that the utilization of amodal features through the amodal-to-visible can confuse the visible features due to the extra information of occluded/hidden segments not presented in visible display. Consequently, this compromised quality of visible features during the subsequent visible-to-amodal transition. To tackle this issue, we introduce ShapeFormer, a decoupled Transformer-based model with a visible-to-amodal transition. It facilitates the explicit relationship between output segmentations and avoids the need for amodal-to-visible transitions. ShapeFormer comprises three key modules: (i) Visible-Occluding Mask Head for predicting visible segmentation with occlusion awareness, (ii) Shape-Prior Amodal Mask Head for predicting amodal and occluded masks, and (iii) Category-Specific Shape Prior Retriever aims to provide shape prior knowledge. Comprehensive experiments and extensive ablation studies across various AIS benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of our ShapeFormer. The code is available at: this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [847]
标题:  Path-GPTOmic: A Balanced Multi-modal Learning Framework for Survival  Outcome Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11375
作者:  Hongxiao Wang,  Yang Yang,  Zhuo Zhao,  Pengfei Gu,  Nishchal Sapkota,  Danny Z. Chen
备注:  Accepted by IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging (ISBI 2024)
Abstract:For predicting cancer survival outcomes, standard approaches in clinical research are often based on two main modalities: pathology images for observing cell morphology features, and genomic (e.g., bulk RNA-seq) for quantifying gene expressions. However, existing pathology-genomic multi-modal algorithms face significant challenges: (1) Valuable biological insights regarding genes and gene-gene interactions are frequently overlooked; (2) one modality often dominates the optimization process, causing inadequate training for the other modality. In this paper, we introduce a new multi-modal ``Path-GPTOmic" framework for cancer survival outcome prediction. First, to extract valuable biological insights, we regulate the embedding space of a foundation model, scGPT, initially trained on single-cell RNA-seq data, making it adaptable for bulk RNA-seq data. Second, to address the imbalance-between-modalities problem, we propose a gradient modulation mechanism tailored to the Cox partial likelihood loss for survival prediction. The contributions of the modalities are dynamically monitored and adjusted during the training process, encouraging that both modalities are sufficiently trained. Evaluated on two TCGA(The Cancer Genome Atlas) datasets, our model achieves substantially improved survival prediction accuracy.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG); Genomics (q-bio.GN)

**编号**: [848]
标题:  Quasi-Monte Carlo and importance sampling methods for Bayesian inverse  problems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11374
作者:  Zhijian He,  Hejin Wang,  Xiaoqun Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Importance Sampling (IS), an effective variance reduction strategy in Monte Carlo (MC) simulation, is frequently utilized for Bayesian inference and other statistical challenges. Quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) replaces the random samples in MC with low discrepancy points and has the potential to substantially enhance error rates. In this paper, we integrate IS with a randomly shifted rank-1 lattice rule, a widely used QMC method, to approximate posterior expectations arising from Bayesian Inverse Problems (BIPs) where the posterior density tends to concentrate as the intensity of noise diminishes. Within the framework of weighted Hilbert spaces, we first establish the convergence rate of the lattice rule for a large class of unbounded integrands. This method extends to the analysis of QMC combined with IS in BIPs. Furthermore, we explore the robustness of the IS-based randomly shifted rank-1 lattice rule by determining the quadrature error rate with respect to the noise level. The effects of using Gaussian distributions and $t$-distributions as the proposal distributions on the error rate of QMC are comprehensively investigated. We find that the error rate may deteriorate at low intensity of noise when using improper proposals, such as the prior distribution. To reclaim the effectiveness of QMC, we propose a new IS method such that the lattice rule with $N$ quadrature points achieves an optimal error rate close to $O(N^{-1})$, which is insensitive to the noise level. Numerical experiments are conducted to support the theoretical results.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Statistics Theory (math.ST)

**编号**: [849]
标题:  Reconstruct before Query: Continual Missing Modality Learning with  Decomposed Prompt Collaboration
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11373
作者:  Shu Zhao,  Xiaohan Zou,  Tan Yu,  Huijuan Xu
备注:  
Abstract:Pre-trained large multi-modal models (LMMs) exploit fine-tuning to adapt diverse user applications. Nevertheless, fine-tuning may face challenges due to deactivated sensors (e.g., cameras turned off for privacy or technical issues), yielding modality-incomplete data and leading to inconsistency in training data and the data for inference. Additionally, continuous training leads to catastrophic forgetting, diluting the knowledge in pre-trained LMMs. To overcome these challenges, we introduce a novel task, Continual Missing Modality Learning (CMML), to investigate how models can generalize when data of certain modalities is missing during continual fine-tuning. Our preliminary benchmarks reveal that existing methods suffer from a significant performance drop in CMML, even with the aid of advanced continual learning techniques. Therefore, we devise a framework termed Reconstruct before Query (RebQ). It decomposes prompts into modality-specific ones and breaks them into components stored in pools accessible via a key-query mechanism, which facilitates ParameterEfficient Fine-Tuning and enhances knowledge transferability for subsequent tasks. Meanwhile, our RebQ leverages extensive multi-modal knowledge from pre-trained LMMs to reconstruct the data of missing modality. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that RebQ effectively reconstructs the missing modality information and retains pre-trained knowledge. Specifically, compared with the baseline, RebQ improves average precision from 20.00 to 50.92 and decreases average forgetting from 75.95 to 8.56. Code and datasets are available on this https URL
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [850]
标题:  V2X-DGW: Domain Generalization for Multi-agent Perception under Adverse  Weather Conditions
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11371
作者:  Baolu Li,  Jinlong Li,  Xinyu Liu,  Runsheng Xu,  Zhengzhong Tu,  Jiacheng Guo,  Xiaopeng Li,  Hongkai Yu
备注:  
Abstract:Current LiDAR-based Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) multi-agent perception systems have shown the significant success on 3D object detection. While these models perform well in the trained clean weather, they struggle in unseen adverse weather conditions with the real-world domain gap. In this paper, we propose a domain generalization approach, named V2X-DGW, for LiDAR-based 3D object detection on multi-agent perception system under adverse weather conditions. Not only in the clean weather does our research aim to ensure favorable multi-agent performance, but also in the unseen adverse weather conditions by learning only on the clean weather data. To advance research in this area, we have simulated the impact of three prevalent adverse weather conditions on two widely-used multi-agent datasets, resulting in the creation of two novel benchmark datasets: OPV2V-w and V2XSet-w. To this end, we first introduce the Adaptive Weather Augmentation (AWA) to mimic the unseen adverse weather conditions, and then propose two alignments for generalizable representation learning: Trust-region Weather-invariant Alignment (TWA) and Agent-aware Contrastive Alignment (ACA). Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our V2X-DGW achieved improvements in the unseen adverse weather conditions.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [851]
标题:  DynamicGlue: Epipolar and Time-Informed Data Association in Dynamic  Environments using Graph Neural Networks
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11370
作者:  Theresa Huber,  Simon Schaefer,  Stefan Leutenegger
备注:  
Abstract:The assumption of a static environment is common in many geometric computer vision tasks like SLAM but limits their applicability in highly dynamic scenes. Since these tasks rely on identifying point correspondences between input images within the static part of the environment, we propose a graph neural network-based sparse feature matching network designed to perform robust matching under challenging conditions while excluding keypoints on moving objects. We employ a similar scheme of attentional aggregation over graph edges to enhance keypoint representations as state-of-the-art feature-matching networks but augment the graph with epipolar and temporal information and vastly reduce the number of graph edges. Furthermore, we introduce a self-supervised training scheme to extract pseudo labels for image pairs in dynamic environments from exclusively unprocessed visual-inertial data. A series of experiments show the superior performance of our network as it excludes keypoints on moving objects compared to state-of-the-art feature matching networks while still achieving similar results regarding conventional matching metrics. When integrated into a SLAM system, our network significantly improves performance, especially in highly dynamic scenes.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [852]
标题:  What Makes Math Word Problems Challenging for LLMs?
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11369
作者:  KV Aditya Srivatsa,  Ekaterina Kochmar
备注:  Accepted to NAACL Findings 2024
Abstract:This paper investigates the question of what makes math word problems (MWPs) challenging for large language models (LLMs). We conduct an in-depth analysis of the key linguistic and mathematical characteristics of MWPs. In addition, we train feature-based classifiers to better understand the impact of each feature on the overall difficulty of MWPs for prominent LLMs and investigate whether this helps predict how well LLMs fare against specific categories of MWPs.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [853]
标题:  Driving Style Alignment for LLM-powered Driver Agent
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11368
作者:  Ruoxuan Yang,  Xinyue Zhang,  Anais Fernandez-Laaksonen,  Xin Ding,  Jiangtao Gong
备注:  
Abstract:Recently, LLM-powered driver agents have demonstrated considerable potential in the field of autonomous driving, showcasing human-like reasoning and decision-making abilities.However, current research on aligning driver agent behaviors with human driving styles remains limited, partly due to the scarcity of high-quality natural language data from human driving this http URL address this research gap, we propose a multi-alignment framework designed to align driver agents with human driving styles through demonstrations and feedback. Notably, we construct a natural language dataset of human driver behaviors through naturalistic driving experiments and post-driving interviews, offering high-quality human demonstrations for LLM alignment. The framework's effectiveness is validated through simulation experiments in the CARLA urban traffic simulator and further corroborated by human evaluations. Our research offers valuable insights into designing driving agents with diverse driving styles.The implementation of the framework and details of the dataset can be found at the link.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [854]
标题:  3DGS-ReLoc: 3D Gaussian Splatting for Map Representation and Visual  ReLocalization
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11367
作者:  Peng Jiang,  Gaurav Pandey,  Srikanth Saripalli
备注:  8 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:This paper presents a novel system designed for 3D mapping and visual relocalization using 3D Gaussian Splatting. Our proposed method uses LiDAR and camera data to create accurate and visually plausible representations of the environment. By leveraging LiDAR data to initiate the training of the 3D Gaussian Splatting map, our system constructs maps that are both detailed and geometrically accurate. To mitigate excessive GPU memory usage and facilitate rapid spatial queries, we employ a combination of a 2D voxel map and a KD-tree. This preparation makes our method well-suited for visual localization tasks, enabling efficient identification of correspondences between the query image and the rendered image from the Gaussian Splatting map via normalized cross-correlation (NCC). Additionally, we refine the camera pose of the query image using feature-based matching and the Perspective-n-Point (PnP) technique. The effectiveness, adaptability, and precision of our system are demonstrated through extensive evaluation on the KITTI360 dataset.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Graphics (cs.GR); Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [855]
标题:  JORA: JAX Tensor-Parallel LoRA Library for Retrieval Augmented  Fine-Tuning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11366
作者:  Anique Tahir,  Lu Cheng,  Huan Liu
备注:  
Abstract:The scaling of Large Language Models (LLMs) for retrieval-based tasks, particularly in Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), faces significant memory constraints, especially when fine-tuning extensive prompt sequences. Current open-source libraries support full-model inference and fine-tuning across multiple GPUs but fall short of accommodating the efficient parameter distribution required for retrieved context. Addressing this gap, we introduce a novel framework for PEFT-compatible fine-tuning of Llama-2 models, leveraging distributed training. Our framework uniquely utilizes JAX's just-in-time (JIT) compilation and tensor-sharding for efficient resource management, thereby enabling accelerated fine-tuning with reduced memory requirements. This advancement significantly improves the scalability and feasibility of fine-tuning LLMs for complex RAG applications, even on systems with limited GPU resources. Our experiments show more than 12x improvement in runtime compared to Hugging Face/DeepSpeed implementation with four GPUs while consuming less than half the VRAM per GPU. Our library will be open-sourced in due course.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)

**编号**: [856]
标题:  Determination of a Small Elliptical Anomaly in Electrical Impedance  Tomography using Minimal Measurements
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11365
作者:  Gaoming Chen,  Fadil Santosa,  Aseel Titi
备注:  20 pages, 7 figures, submitted to refereed journal
Abstract:We consider the problem of determining a small elliptical conductivity anomaly in a unit disc from boundary measurements. The conductivity of the anomaly is assumed to be a small perturbation from the constant background. A measurement of voltage across two point-electrodes on the boundary through which a constant current is passed. We further assume the limiting case when the distance between two electrodes go to zero, creating a dipole field. We show that three such measurements suffice to locate the anomaly size and location inside the disc. Two further measurements are needed to obtain the aspect ratio and the orientation of the ellipse. The investigation includes the studies of the stability of the inverse problem and optimal experiment design.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [857]
标题:  Creating Seamless 3D Maps Using Radiance Fields
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11364
作者:  Sai Tarun Sathyan,  Thomas B. Kinsman
备注:  10 pages with figures
Abstract:It is desirable to create 3D object models and 3D maps from 2D input images for applications such as navigation, virtual tourism, and urban planning. The traditional methods of creating 3D maps, (such as photogrammetry), require a large number of images and odometry. Additionally, traditional methods have difficulty with reflective surfaces and specular reflections; windows and chrome in the scene can be problematic. Google Road View is a familiar application, which uses traditional methods to fuse a collection of 2D input images into the illusion of a 3D map. However, Google Road View does not create an actual 3D object model, only a collection of views. The objective of this work is to create an actual 3D object model using updated techniques. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF[1]) has emerged as a potential solution, offering the capability to produce more precise and intricate 3D maps. Gaussian Splatting[4] is another contemporary technique. This investigation compares Neural Radiance Fields to Gaussian Splatting, and describes some of their inner workings. Our primary contribution is a method for improving the results of the 3D reconstructed models. Our results indicate that Gaussian Splatting was superior to the NeRF technique.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [858]
标题:  IGANN Sparse: Bridging Sparsity and Interpretability with Non-linear  Insight
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11363
作者:  Theodor Stoecker,  Nico Hambauer,  Patrick Zschech,  Mathias Kraus
备注:  Preprint conditionally accepted for archival and presentation at the 32nd European Conference on Information Systems (ECIS 2024)
Abstract:Feature selection is a critical component in predictive analytics that significantly affects the prediction accuracy and interpretability of models. Intrinsic methods for feature selection are built directly into model learning, providing a fast and attractive option for large amounts of data. Machine learning algorithms, such as penalized regression models (e.g., lasso) are the most common choice when it comes to in-built feature selection. However, they fail to capture non-linear relationships, which ultimately affects their ability to predict outcomes in intricate datasets. In this paper, we propose IGANN Sparse, a novel machine learning model from the family of generalized additive models, which promotes sparsity through a non-linear feature selection process during training. This ensures interpretability through improved model sparsity without sacrificing predictive performance. Moreover, IGANN Sparse serves as an exploratory tool for information systems researchers to unveil important non-linear relationships in domains that are characterized by complex patterns. Our ongoing research is directed at a thorough evaluation of the IGANN Sparse model, including user studies that allow to assess how well users of the model can benefit from the reduced number of features. This will allow for a deeper understanding of the interactions between linear vs. non-linear modeling, number of selected features, and predictive performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computers and Society (cs.CY)

**编号**: [859]
标题:  Graph Theory for Consent Management: A New Approach for Complex Data  Flows
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11361
作者:  Dorota Filipczuk,  Enrico H. Gerding,  George Konstantinidis
备注:  
Abstract:Through legislation and technical advances users gain more control over how their data is processed, and they expect online services to respect their privacy choices and preferences. However, data may be processed for many different purposes by several layers of algorithms that create complex data workflows. To date, there is no existing approach to automatically satisfy fine-grained privacy constraints of a user in a way which optimises the service provider's gains from processing. In this article, we propose a solution to this problem by modelling a data flow as a graph. User constraints and processing purposes are pairs of vertices which need to be disconnected in this graph. In general, this problem is NP-hard, thus, we propose several heuristics and algorithms. We discuss the optimality versus efficiency of our algorithms and evaluate them using synthetically generated data. On the practical side, our algorithms can provide nearly optimal solutions for tens of constraints and graphs of thousands of nodes, in a few seconds.
Subjects: Databases (cs.DB)

**编号**: [860]
标题:  Solvent-Aware 2D NMR Prediction: Leveraging Multi-Tasking Training and  Iterative Self-Training Strategies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11353
作者:  Yunrui Li,  Hao Xu,  Pengyu Hong
备注:  
Abstract:Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy plays a pivotal role in various scientific fields, offering insights into structural information, electronic properties and dynamic behaviors of molecules. Accurate NMR spectrum prediction efficiently produces candidate molecules, enabling chemists to compare them with actual experimental spectra. This process aids in confirming molecular structures or pinpointing discrepancies, guiding further investigation. Machine Learning (ML) has then emerged as a promising alternative approach for predicting atomic NMR chemical shits of molecules given their structures. Although significant progresses have been made in predicting one-dimensional (1D) NMR, two-dimensional (2D) NMR prediction via ML remains a challenge due to the lack of annotated NMR training datasets. To address this gap, we propose an iterative self-training (IST) approach to train a deep learning model for predicting atomic 2DNMR shifts and assigning peaks in experimental spectra. Our model undergoes an initial pre-training phase employing a Multi-Task Training (MTT) approach, which simultaneously leverages annotated 1D NMR datasets of both $^{1}\text{H}$ and $^{13}\text{C}$ spectra to enhance its understanding of NMR spectra. Subsequently, the pre-trained model is utilized to generate pseudo-annotations for unlabelled 2D NMR spectra, which are subsequently used to refine the 2D NMR prediction model. Our approach iterates between annotated unlabelled 2D NMR data and refining our 2D NMR prediction model until convergence. Finally, our model is able to not only accurately predict 2D NMR but also annotate peaks in experimental 2D NMR spectra. Experimental results show that our model is capable of accurately handling medium-sized and large molecules, including polysaccharides, underscoring its effectiveness.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)

**编号**: [861]
标题:  Robustness of the data-driven approach in limited angle tomography
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11350
作者:  Yiran Wang,  Yimin Zhong
备注:  
Abstract:The limited angle Radon transform is notoriously difficult to invert due to the ill-posedness. In this work, we give a mathematical explanation that the data-driven approach based on deep neural networks can reconstruct more information in a stable way compared to traditional methods.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [862]
标题:  COLEP: Certifiably Robust Learning-Reasoning Conformal Prediction via  Probabilistic Circuits
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11348
作者:  Mintong Kang,  Nezihe Merve Gürel,  Linyi Li,  Bo Li
备注:  Accepted to ICLR 2024
Abstract:Conformal prediction has shown spurring performance in constructing statistically rigorous prediction sets for arbitrary black-box machine learning models, assuming the data is exchangeable. However, even small adversarial perturbations during the inference can violate the exchangeability assumption, challenge the coverage guarantees, and result in a subsequent decline in empirical coverage. In this work, we propose a certifiably robust learning-reasoning conformal prediction framework (COLEP) via probabilistic circuits, which comprise a data-driven learning component that trains statistical models to learn different semantic concepts, and a reasoning component that encodes knowledge and characterizes the relationships among the trained models for logic reasoning. To achieve exact and efficient reasoning, we employ probabilistic circuits (PCs) within the reasoning component. Theoretically, we provide end-to-end certification of prediction coverage for COLEP in the presence of bounded adversarial perturbations. We also provide certified coverage considering the finite size of the calibration set. Furthermore, we prove that COLEP achieves higher prediction coverage and accuracy over a single model as long as the utilities of knowledge models are non-trivial. Empirically, we show the validity and tightness of our certified coverage, demonstrating the robust conformal prediction of COLEP on various datasets, including GTSRB, CIFAR10, and AwA2. We show that COLEP achieves up to 12% improvement in certified coverage on GTSRB, 9% on CIFAR-10, and 14% on AwA2.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [863]
标题:  CantonMT: Cantonese to English NMT Platform with Fine-Tuned Models Using  Synthetic Back-Translation Data
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11346
作者:  Kung Yin Hong,  Lifeng Han,  Riza Batista-Navarro,  Goran Nenadic
备注:  
Abstract:Neural Machine Translation (NMT) for low-resource languages is still a challenging task in front of NLP researchers. In this work, we deploy a standard data augmentation methodology by back-translation to a new language translation direction Cantonese-to-English. We present the models we fine-tuned using the limited amount of real data and the synthetic data we generated using back-translation including OpusMT, NLLB, and mBART. We carried out automatic evaluation using a range of different metrics including lexical-based and embedding-based. Furthermore. we create a user-friendly interface for the models we included in this\textsc{ CantonMT} research project and make it available to facilitate Cantonese-to-English MT research. Researchers can add more models into this platform via our open-source\textsc{ CantonMT} toolkit \url{this https URL}.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [864]
标题:  Independent RL for Cooperative-Competitive Agents: A Mean-Field  Perspective
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11345
作者:  Muhammad Aneeq uz Zaman,  Alec Koppel,  Mathieu Laurière,  Tamer Başar
备注:  
Abstract:We address in this paper Reinforcement Learning (RL) among agents that are grouped into teams such that there is cooperation within each team but general-sum (non-zero sum) competition across different teams. To develop an RL method that provably achieves a Nash equilibrium, we focus on a linear-quadratic structure. Moreover, to tackle the non-stationarity induced by multi-agent interactions in the finite population setting, we consider the case where the number of agents within each team is infinite, i.e., the mean-field setting. This results in a General-Sum LQ Mean-Field Type Game (GS-MFTGs). We characterize the Nash equilibrium (NE) of the GS-MFTG, under a standard invertibility condition. This MFTG NE is then shown to be $\mathcal{O}(1/M)$-NE for the finite population game where $M$ is a lower bound on the number of agents in each team. These structural results motivate an algorithm called Multi-player Receding-horizon Natural Policy Gradient (MRPG), where each team minimizes its cumulative cost independently in a receding-horizon manner. Despite the non-convexity of the problem, we establish that the resulting algorithm converges to a global NE through a novel problem decomposition into sub-problems using backward recursive discrete-time Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs (HJI) equations, in which independent natural policy gradient is shown to exhibit linear convergence under time-independent diagonal dominance. Experiments illuminate the merits of this approach in practice.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [865]
标题:  Federated Transfer Learning with Differential Privacy
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11343
作者:  Mengchu Li,  Ye Tian,  Yang Feng,  Yi Yu
备注:  76 pages, 3 figures
Abstract:Federated learning is gaining increasing popularity, with data heterogeneity and privacy being two prominent challenges. In this paper, we address both issues within a federated transfer learning framework, aiming to enhance learning on a target data set by leveraging information from multiple heterogeneous source data sets while adhering to privacy constraints. We rigorously formulate the notion of \textit{federated differential privacy}, which offers privacy guarantees for each data set without assuming a trusted central server. Under this privacy constraint, we study three classical statistical problems, namely univariate mean estimation, low-dimensional linear regression, and high-dimensional linear regression. By investigating the minimax rates and identifying the costs of privacy for these problems, we show that federated differential privacy is an intermediate privacy model between the well-established local and central models of differential privacy. Our analyses incorporate data heterogeneity and privacy, highlighting the fundamental costs of both in federated learning and underscoring the benefit of knowledge transfer across data sets.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Methodology (stat.ME); Machine Learning (stat.ML)

**编号**: [866]
标题:  Enhancing Bandwidth Efficiency for Video Motion Transfer Applications  using Deep Learning Based Keypoint Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11337
作者:  Xue Bai,  Tasmiah Haque,  Sumit Mohan,  Yuliang Cai,  Byungheon Jeong,  Adam Halasz,  Srinjoy Das
备注:  
Abstract:We propose a deep learning based novel prediction framework for enhanced bandwidth reduction in motion transfer enabled video applications such as video conferencing, virtual reality gaming and privacy preservation for patient health monitoring. To model complex motion, we use the First Order Motion Model (FOMM) that represents dynamic objects using learned keypoints along with their local affine transformations. Keypoints are extracted by a self-supervised keypoint detector and organized in a time series corresponding to the video frames. Prediction of keypoints, to enable transmission using lower frames per second on the source device, is performed using a Variational Recurrent Neural Network (VRNN). The predicted keypoints are then synthesized to video frames using an optical flow estimator and a generator network. This efficacy of leveraging keypoint based representations in conjunction with VRNN based prediction for both video animation and reconstruction is demonstrated on three diverse datasets. For real-time applications, our results show the effectiveness of our proposed architecture by enabling up to 2x additional bandwidth reduction over existing keypoint based video motion transfer frameworks without significantly compromising video quality.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [867]
标题:  ConvSDG: Session Data Generation for Conversational Search
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11335
作者:  Fengran Mo,  Bole Yi,  Kelong Mao,  Chen Qu,  Kaiyu Huang,  Jian-Yun Nie
备注:  Accepted by WWW 2024 Workshop
Abstract:Conversational search provides a more convenient interface for users to search by allowing multi-turn interaction with the search engine. However, the effectiveness of the conversational dense retrieval methods is limited by the scarcity of training data required for their fine-tuning. Thus, generating more training conversational sessions with relevant labels could potentially improve search performance. Based on the promising capabilities of large language models (LLMs) on text generation, we propose ConvSDG, a simple yet effective framework to explore the feasibility of boosting conversational search by using LLM for session data generation. Within this framework, we design dialogue/session-level and query-level data generation with unsupervised and semi-supervised learning, according to the availability of relevance judgments. The generated data are used to fine-tune the conversational dense retriever. Extensive experiments on four widely used datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and broad applicability of our ConvSDG framework compared with several strong baselines.
Subjects: Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [868]
标题:  Bridging the Gap between Discrete Agent Strategies in Game Theory and  Continuous Motion Planning in Dynamic Environments
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11334
作者:  Hongrui Zheng,  Zhijun Zhuang,  Stephanie Wu,  Shuo Yang,  Rahul Mangharam
备注:  Submitted to RA-L
Abstract:Generating competitive strategies and performing continuous motion planning simultaneously in an adversarial setting is a challenging problem. In addition, understanding the intent of other agents is crucial to deploying autonomous systems in adversarial multi-agent environments. Existing approaches either discretize agent action by grouping similar control inputs, sacrificing performance in motion planning, or plan in uninterpretable latent spaces, producing hard-to-understand agent behaviors. This paper proposes an agent strategy representation via Policy Characteristic Space that maps the agent policies to a pre-specified low-dimensional space. Policy Characteristic Space enables the discretization of agent policy switchings while preserving continuity in control. Also, it provides intepretability of agent policies and clear intentions of policy switchings. Then, regret-based game-theoretic approaches can be applied in the Policy Characteristic Space to obtain high performance in adversarial environments. Our proposed method is assessed by conducting experiments in an autonomous racing scenario using scaled vehicles. Statistical evidence shows that our method significantly improves the win rate of ego agent and the method also generalizes well to unseen environments.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [869]
标题:  Graph Neural Network based Double Machine Learning Estimator of Network  Causal Effects
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11332
作者:  Seyedeh Baharan Khatami,  Harsh Parikh,  Haowei Chen,  Sudeepa Roy,  Babak Salimi
备注:  
Abstract:Our paper addresses the challenge of inferring causal effects in social network data, characterized by complex interdependencies among individuals resulting in challenges such as non-independence of units, interference (where a unit's outcome is affected by neighbors' treatments), and introduction of additional confounding factors from neighboring units. We propose a novel methodology combining graph neural networks and double machine learning, enabling accurate and efficient estimation of direct and peer effects using a single observational social network. Our approach utilizes graph isomorphism networks in conjunction with double machine learning to effectively adjust for network confounders and consistently estimate the desired causal effects. We demonstrate that our estimator is both asymptotically normal and semiparametrically efficient. A comprehensive evaluation against four state-of-the-art baseline methods using three semi-synthetic social network datasets reveals our method's on-par or superior efficacy in precise causal effect estimation. Further, we illustrate the practical application of our method through a case study that investigates the impact of Self-Help Group participation on financial risk tolerance. The results indicate a significant positive direct effect, underscoring the potential of our approach in social network analysis. Additionally, we explore the effects of network sparsity on estimation performance.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Methodology (stat.ME)

**编号**: [870]
标题:  Improving Dialogue Agents by Decomposing One Global Explicit Annotation  with Local Implicit Multimodal Feedback
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11330
作者:  Dong Won Lee,  Hae Won Park,  Yoon Kim,  Cynthia Breazeal,  Louis-Philippe Morency
备注:  9 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
Abstract:We describe an approach for aligning an LLM-based dialogue agent based on global (i.e., dialogue-level) rewards, while also taking into account naturally-occurring multimodal signals. At a high level, our approach (dubbed GELI) learns a local, turn-level reward model by decomposing the human-provided Global Explicit (GE) session-level reward, using Local Implicit (LI} multimodal reward signals to crossmodally shape the reward decomposition step. This decomposed reward model is then used as part of the standard RHLF pipeline improve an LLM-based dialog agent. We run quantitative and qualitative human studies to evaluate the performance of our GELI approach, and find that it shows consistent improvements across various conversational metrics compared to baseline methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [871]
标题:  Domain-Guided Masked Autoencoders for Unique Player Identification
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11328
作者:  Bavesh Balaji,  Jerrin Bright,  Sirisha Rambhatla,  Yuhao Chen,  Alexander Wong,  John Zelek,  David A Clausi
备注:  Submitted to 21st International Conference on Robots and Vision (CRV'24), Guelph, Ontario, Canada
Abstract:Unique player identification is a fundamental module in vision-driven sports analytics. Identifying players from broadcast videos can aid with various downstream tasks such as player assessment, in-game analysis, and broadcast production. However, automatic detection of jersey numbers using deep features is challenging primarily due to: a) motion blur, b) low resolution video feed, and c) occlusions. With their recent success in various vision tasks, masked autoencoders (MAEs) have emerged as a superior alternative to conventional feature extractors. However, most MAEs simply zero-out image patches either randomly or focus on where to mask rather than how to mask. Motivated by human vision, we devise a novel domain-guided masking policy for MAEs termed d-MAE to facilitate robust feature extraction in the presence of motion blur for player identification. We further introduce a new spatio-temporal network leveraging our novel d-MAE for unique player identification. We conduct experiments on three large-scale sports datasets, including a curated baseball dataset, the SoccerNet dataset, and an in-house ice hockey dataset. We preprocess the datasets using an upgraded keyframe identification (KfID) module by focusing on frames containing jersey numbers. Additionally, we propose a keyframe-fusion technique to augment keyframes, preserving spatial and temporal context. Our spatio-temporal network showcases significant improvements, surpassing the current state-of-the-art by 8.58%, 4.29%, and 1.20% in the test set accuracies, respectively. Rigorous ablations highlight the effectiveness of our domain-guided masking approach and the refined KfID module, resulting in performance enhancements of 1.48% and 1.84% respectively, compared to original architectures.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [872]
标题:  GeoGaussian: Geometry-aware Gaussian Splatting for Scene Rendering
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11324
作者:  Yanyan Li,  Chenyu Lyu,  Yan Di,  Guangyao Zhai,  Gim Hee Lee,  Federico Tombari
备注:  
Abstract:During the Gaussian Splatting optimization process, the scene's geometry can gradually deteriorate if its structure is not deliberately preserved, especially in non-textured regions such as walls, ceilings, and furniture surfaces. This degradation significantly affects the rendering quality of novel views that deviate significantly from the viewpoints in the training data. To mitigate this issue, we propose a novel approach called GeoGaussian. Based on the smoothly connected areas observed from point clouds, this method introduces a novel pipeline to initialize thin Gaussians aligned with the surfaces, where the characteristic can be transferred to new generations through a carefully designed densification strategy. Finally, the pipeline ensures that the scene's geometry and texture are maintained through constrained optimization processes with explicit geometry constraints. Benefiting from the proposed architecture, the generative ability of 3D Gaussians is enhanced, especially in structured regions. Our proposed pipeline achieves state-of-the-art performance in novel view synthesis and geometric reconstruction, as evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively on public datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [873]
标题:  StateFlow: Enhancing LLM Task-Solving through State-Driven Workflows
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11322
作者:  Yiran Wu,  Tianwei Yue,  Shaokun Zhang,  Chi Wang,  Qingyun Wu
备注:  
Abstract:It is a notable trend to use Large Language Models (LLMs) to tackle complex tasks, e.g., tasks that require a sequence of actions and dynamic interaction with tools and environments. In this paper, we propose StateFlow, a novel LLM-based task-solving paradigm that conceptualizes complex task-solving processes backed by LLMs as state machines. With proper construction of states and definition of state transitions, StateFlow grounds the progress of task-solving, ensuring clear tracking and management of LLMs' responses throughout the task-solving process. Within each state, StateFlow allows execution of a series of actions, involving not only the generation of LLM's responses guided by a specific prompt, but also the utilization of external tools as needed. State transitions are controlled by specific rules or decisions made by the LLM, allowing for a dynamic and adaptive progression through the task's pre-defined StateFlow model. Evaluations on the InterCode SQL and Bash benchmarks show that StateFlow significantly enhances LLMs' efficiency.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [874]
标题:  A constant time complexity algorithm for the unbounded knapsack problem  with bounded coefficients
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11320
作者:  Yang Yang
备注:  
Abstract:Benchmark instances for the unbounded knapsack problem are typically generated according to specific criteria within a given constant range $R$, and these instances can be referred to as the unbounded knapsack problem with bounded coefficients (UKPB). In order to increase the difficulty of solving these instances, the knapsack capacity $C$ is usually set to a very large value. Therefore, an exact algorithm that neither time complexity nor space complexity includes the capacity coefficient $C$ is highly anticipated. In this paper, we propose an exact algorithm with time complexity of $O(R^4)$ and space complexity of $O(R^3)$. The algorithm initially divides the multiset $N$ into two multisubsets, $N_1$ and $N_2$, based on the profit density of their types. For the multisubset $N_2$ composed of types with profit density lower than the maximum profit density type, we utilize a recent branch and bound (B\&B) result by Dey et al. (Math. Prog., pp 569-587, 2023) to determine the maximum selection number for types in $N_2$. We then employ the Unbounded-DP algorithm to exactly solve for the types in $N_2$. For the multisubset $N_1$ composed of the maximum profit density type and its counterparts with the same profit density, we transform it into a linear Diophantine equation and leverage relevant conclusions from the Frobenius problem to solve it efficiently. In particular, the proof techniques required by the algorithm are primarily covered in the first-year mathematics curriculum, which is convenient for subsequent researchers to grasp.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)

**编号**: [875]
标题:  Few-Shot VQA with Frozen LLMs: A Tale of Two Approaches
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11317
作者:  Igor Sterner,  Weizhe Lin,  Jinghong Chen,  Bill Byrne
备注:  
Abstract:Two approaches have emerged to input images into large language models (LLMs). The first is to caption images into natural language. The second is to map image feature embeddings into the domain of the LLM and pass the mapped embeddings directly to the LLM. The majority of recent few-shot multimodal work reports performance using architectures that employ variations of one of these two approaches. But they overlook an important comparison between them. We design a controlled and focused experiment to compare these two approaches to few-shot visual question answering (VQA) with LLMs. Our findings indicate that for Flan-T5 XL, a 3B parameter LLM, connecting visual embeddings directly to the LLM embedding space does not guarantee improved performance over using image captions. In the zero-shot regime, we find using textual image captions is better. In the few-shot regimes, how the in-context examples are selected determines which is better.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [876]
标题:  Reasoning in Transformers - Mitigating Spurious Correlations and  Reasoning Shortcuts
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11314
作者:  Daniel Enström,  Viktor Kjellberg,  Moa Johansson
备注:  
Abstract:Transformer language models are neural networks used for a wide variety of tasks concerning natural language, including some that also require logical reasoning. However, a transformer model may easily learn spurious patterns in the data, short-circuiting actual reasoning. In this paper we investigate to what extent transformers can be trained to a) approximate reasoning in propositional logic while b) avoiding known reasoning shortcuts via spurious correlations in the training data. To do so, we use a dataset with known spurious correlation between truth and e.g. the number of rules in the problem. We augment the data with proofs, and train two models: a generative transformer, WP-BART, trained on problems and their whole proofs, and a neuro-symbolic model, SIP-BART, trained on individual proof steps and combining the generative transformer model BART with a symbolic proof checker. We find that SIP-BART succeeds in avoiding reasoning shortcuts, while WP-BART does not. For SIP-BART, we then identify a few remaining reasoning errors, not previously described in the literature, arising from using a pre-trained language model. These are qualitatively analysed to create a taxonomy of four different types of additional pitfalls.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

**编号**: [877]
标题:  Leveraging Simulation-Based Model Preconditions for Fast Action  Parameter Optimization with Multiple Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11313
作者:  M. Yunus Seker,  Oliver Kroemer
备注:  
Abstract:Optimizing robotic action parameters is a significant challenge for manipulation tasks that demand high levels of precision and generalization. Using a model-based approach, the robot must quickly reason about the outcomes of different actions using a predictive model to find a set of parameters that will have the desired effect. The model may need to capture the behaviors of rigid and deformable objects, as well as objects of various shapes and sizes. Predictive models often need to trade-off speed for prediction accuracy and generalization. This paper proposes a framework that leverages the strengths of multiple predictive models, including analytical, learned, and simulation-based models, to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of action parameter optimization. Our approach uses Model Deviation Estimators (MDEs) to determine the most suitable predictive model for any given state-action parameters, allowing the robot to select models to make fast and precise predictions. We extend the MDE framework by not only learning sim-to-real MDEs, but also sim-to-sim MDEs. Our experiments show that these sim-to-sim MDEs provide significantly faster parameter optimization as well as a basis for efficiently learning sim-to-real MDEs through finetuning. The ease of collecting sim-to-sim training data also allows the robot to learn MDEs based directly on visual inputs and local material properties.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [878]
标题:  Forging the Industrial Metaverse - Where Industry 5.0, Augmented and  Mixed Reality, IIoT, Opportunistic Edge Computing and Digital Twins Meet
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11312
作者:  Tiago M. Fernández-Caramés,  Paula Fraga-Lamas
备注:  Article submitted to IEEE Access (currently under review)
Abstract:The Metaverse is a concept that proposes to immerse users into real-time rendered 3D content virtual worlds delivered through Extended Reality (XR) devices like Augmented and Mixed Reality (AR/MR) smart glasses and Virtual Reality (VR) headsets. When the Metaverse concept is applied to industrial environments, it is called Industrial Metaverse, a hybrid world where industrial operators work by using some of the latest technologies. Currently, such technologies are related to the ones fostered by Industry 4.0, which is evolving towards Industry 5.0, a paradigm that enhances Industry 4.0 by creating a sustainable and resilient world of industrial human-centric applications. The Industrial Metaverse can benefit from Industry 5.0, since it implies making use of dynamic and up-to-date content, as well as fast human-to-machine interactions. To enable such enhancements, this article proposes the concept of Meta-Operator: an Industry 5.0 worker that interacts with Industrial Metaverse applications and with his/her surroundings through advanced XR devices. This article provides a description of the technologies that support Meta-Operators: the main components of the Industrial Metaverse, the latest XR technologies and the use of Opportunistic Edge Computing communications (to interact with surrounding IoT/IioT devices). Moreover, this paper analyzes how to create the next generation of Industrial Metaverse applications based on Industry 5.0, including the integration of AR/MR devices with IoT/IIoT solutions, the development of advanced communications or the creation of shared experiences. Finally, this article provides a list of potential Industry 5.0 applications for the Industrial Metaverse and analyzes the main challenges and research lines. Thus, this article provides useful guidelines for the researchers that will create the next generation of applications for the Industrial Metaverse.
Subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)

**编号**: [879]
标题:  Mixture-of-Prompt-Experts for Multi-modal Semantic Understanding
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11311
作者:  Zichen Wu,  HsiuYuan Huang,  Fanyi Qu,  Yunfang Wu
备注:  LREC-COLING 2024, Long Paper
Abstract:Deep multimodal semantic understanding that goes beyond the mere superficial content relation mining has received increasing attention in the realm of artificial intelligence. The challenges of collecting and annotating high-quality multi-modal data have underscored the significance of few-shot learning. In this paper, we focus on two critical tasks under this context: few-shot multi-modal sarcasm detection (MSD) and multi-modal sentiment analysis (MSA). To address them, we propose Mixture-of-Prompt-Experts with Block-Aware Prompt Fusion (MoPE-BAF), a novel multi-modal soft prompt framework based on the unified vision-language model (VLM). Specifically, we design three experts of soft prompts: a text prompt and an image prompt that extract modality-specific features to enrich the single-modal representation, and a unified prompt to assist multi-modal interaction. Additionally, we reorganize Transformer layers into several blocks and introduce cross-modal prompt attention between adjacent blocks, which smoothens the transition from single-modal representation to multi-modal fusion. On both MSD and MSA datasets in few-shot setting, our proposed model not only surpasses the 8.2B model InstructBLIP with merely 2% parameters (150M), but also significantly outperforms other widely-used prompt methods on VLMs or task-specific methods.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Multimedia (cs.MM)

**编号**: [880]
标题:  A Dual-Augmentor Framework for Domain Generalization in 3D Human Pose  Estimation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11310
作者:  Qucheng Peng,  Ce Zheng,  Chen Chen
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:3D human pose data collected in controlled laboratory settings present challenges for pose estimators that generalize across diverse scenarios. To address this, domain generalization is employed. Current methodologies in domain generalization for 3D human pose estimation typically utilize adversarial training to generate synthetic poses for training. Nonetheless, these approaches exhibit several limitations. First, the lack of prior information about the target domain complicates the application of suitable augmentation through a single pose augmentor, affecting generalization on target domains. Moreover, adversarial training's discriminator tends to enforce similarity between source and synthesized poses, impeding the exploration of out-of-source distributions. Furthermore, the pose estimator's optimization is not exposed to domain shifts, limiting its overall generalization ability. To address these limitations, we propose a novel framework featuring two pose augmentors: the weak and the strong augmentors. Our framework employs differential strategies for generation and discrimination processes, facilitating the preservation of knowledge related to source poses and the exploration of out-of-source distributions without prior information about target poses. Besides, we leverage meta-optimization to simulate domain shifts in the optimization process of the pose estimator, thereby improving its generalization ability. Our proposed approach significantly outperforms existing methods, as demonstrated through comprehensive experiments on various benchmark datasets.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [881]
标题:  An upper bound of the mutation probability in the genetic algorithm for  general 0-1 knapsack problem
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11307
作者:  Yang Yang
备注:  
Abstract:As an important part of genetic algorithms (GAs), mutation operators is widely used in evolutionary algorithms to solve $\mathcal{NP}$-hard problems because it can increase the population diversity of individual. Due to limitations in mathematical tools, the mutation probability of the mutation operator is primarily empirically set in practical applications. In this paper, we propose a novel reduction method for the 0-1 knapsack problem(0-1 KP) and an improved mutation operator (IMO) based on the assumption $\mathcal{NP}\neq\mathcal{P}$, along with the utilization of linear relaxation techniques and a recent result by Dey et al. (Math. Prog., pp 569-587, 2022). We employ this method to calculate an upper bound of the mutation probability in general instances of the 0-1 KP, and construct an instance where the mutation probability does not tend towards 0 as the problem size increases. Finally, we prove that the probability of the IMO hitting the optimal solution within only a single iteration in large-scale instances is superior to that of the traditional mutation operator.
Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)

**编号**: [882]
标题:  Pioneering SE(2)-Equivariant Trajectory Planning for Automated Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11304
作者:  Steffen Hagedorn,  Marcel Milich,  Alexandru P. Condurache
备注:  
Abstract:Planning the trajectory of the controlled ego vehicle is a key challenge in automated driving. As for human drivers, predicting the motions of surrounding vehicles is important to plan the own actions. Recent motion prediction methods utilize equivariant neural networks to exploit geometric symmetries in the scene. However, no existing method combines motion prediction and trajectory planning in a joint step while guaranteeing equivariance under roto-translations of the input space. We address this gap by proposing a lightweight equivariant planning model that generates multi-modal joint predictions for all vehicles and selects one mode as the ego plan. The equivariant network design improves sample efficiency, guarantees output stability, and reduces model parameters. We further propose equivariant route attraction to guide the ego vehicle along a high-level route provided by an off-the-shelf GPS navigation system. This module creates a momentum from embedded vehicle positions toward the route in latent space while keeping the equivariance property. Route attraction enables goal-oriented behavior without forcing the vehicle to stick to the exact route. We conduct experiments on the challenging nuScenes dataset to investigate the capability of our planner. The results show that the planned trajectory is stable under roto-translations of the input scene which demonstrates the equivariance of our model. Despite using only a small split of the dataset for training, our method improves L2 distance at 3 s by 20.6 % and surpasses the state of the art.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Multiagent Systems (cs.MA)

**编号**: [883]
标题:  A Brief Study of Computer Network Security Technologies
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11303
作者:  Tulasi Udupa A,  Sushma Jayaram,  Shreya Ganesh Hegde
备注:  
Abstract:The rapid development of computer network system brings both a great convenience and new security threats for users. Network security problem generally includes network system security and data security. Specifically, it refers to the reliability of network system, confidentiality, integrity and availability of data information in the system. This paper introduces the significance of network security systems and highlights related technologies, mainly authentication, data encryption, firewall and antivirus technology. Network security problems can be faced by any network user, therefore we must greatly prioritize network security, try to prevent hostile attacks and ensure the overall security of the network system.
Subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)

**编号**: [884]
标题:  Non-Primary Channel Access in IEEE 802.11 UHR: Comprehensive Analysis  and Evaluation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11300
作者:  Dongyu Wei,  Liu Cao,  Xiangyu Gao,  Hao Yin
备注:  This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. 5 pages, 7 figures
Abstract:The evolution of the IEEE 802.11 standards marks a significant throughput advancement in wireless access technologies, progressively increasing bandwidth capacities from 20 MHz in the IEEE 802.11a to up to 320 MHz in the latest IEEE 802.11be (Wi-Fi 7). However, the increased bandwidth capacities may not be well exploited due to inefficient bandwidth utilization incorporating primary channel and secondary channels. Particularly, when primary channel is busy, secondary channels (also known as non-primary channels) are prevented from being utilized even if they are idle, thereby wasting the available bandwidth. This paper investigates the fundamentals of the Non-Primary Channel Access (NPCA) protocol that was introduced in IEEE 802.11 Ultra-High Reliability (UHR) group to cope with the above issue. We propose a novel analytical model to assess NPCA protocol performance in terms of the average throughput and delay. Via simulation, we verify that the NPCA network outperforms the legacy network by increasing by at least 50% average throughput while reducing by at least 40% average delay.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [885]
标题:  SQ-LLaVA: Self-Questioning for Large Vision-Language Assistant
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11299
作者:  Guohao Sun,  Can Qin,  Jiamian Wang,  Zeyuan Chen,  Ran Xu,  Zhiqiang Tao
备注:  
Abstract:Recent advancements in the vision-language model have shown notable generalization in vision-language tasks after visual instruction tuning. However, bridging the gap between the pre-trained vision encoder and the large language models becomes the whole network's bottleneck. To improve cross-modality alignment, existing works usually consider more visual instruction data covering a broader range of vision tasks to fine-tune the model for question-answering, which are costly to obtain. However, the image contains rich contextual information that has been largely under-explored. This paper first attempts to harness this overlooked context within visual instruction data, training the model to self-supervised `learning' how to ask high-quality questions. In this way, we introduce a novel framework named SQ-LLaVA: Self-Questioning for Large Vision-Language Assistant. SQ-LLaVA exhibits proficiency in generating flexible and meaningful image-related questions while analyzing the visual clue and prior language knowledge, signifying an advanced level of generalized visual understanding. Moreover, fine-tuning SQ-LLaVA on higher-quality instruction data shows a consistent performance improvement compared with traditional visual-instruction tuning methods. This improvement highlights the efficacy of self-questioning techniques in achieving a deeper and more nuanced comprehension of visual content across various contexts.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [886]
标题:  Multi-Sample Long Range Path Planning under Sensing Uncertainty for  Off-Road Autonomous Driving
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11298
作者:  Matt Schmittle,  Rohan Baijal,  Brian Hou,  Siddhartha Srinivasa,  Byron Boots
备注:  
Abstract:We focus on the problem of long-range dynamic replanning for off-road autonomous vehicles, where a robot plans paths through a previously unobserved environment while continuously receiving noisy local observations. An effective approach for planning under sensing uncertainty is determinization, where one converts a stochastic world into a deterministic one and plans under this simplification. This makes the planning problem tractable, but the cost of following the planned path in the real world may be different than in the determinized world. This causes collisions if the determinized world optimistically ignores obstacles, or causes unnecessarily long routes if the determinized world pessimistically imagines more obstacles. We aim to be robust to uncertainty over potential worlds while still achieving the efficiency benefits of determinization. We evaluate algorithms for dynamic replanning on a large real-world dataset of challenging long-range planning problems from the DARPA RACER program. Our method, Dynamic Replanning via Evaluating and Aggregating Multiple Samples (DREAMS), outperforms other determinization-based approaches in terms of combined traversal time and collision cost. this https URL
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [887]
标题:  A Modified Word Saliency-Based Adversarial Attack on Text Classification  Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11297
作者:  Hetvi Waghela,  Sneha Rakshit,  Jaydip Sen
备注:  The paper is a preprint of a version submitted in ICCIDA 2024. It consists of 10 pages and contains 7 tables
Abstract:This paper introduces a novel adversarial attack method targeting text classification models, termed the Modified Word Saliency-based Adversarial At-tack (MWSAA). The technique builds upon the concept of word saliency to strategically perturb input texts, aiming to mislead classification models while preserving semantic coherence. By refining the traditional adversarial attack approach, MWSAA significantly enhances its efficacy in evading detection by classification systems. The methodology involves first identifying salient words in the input text through a saliency estimation process, which prioritizes words most influential to the model's decision-making process. Subsequently, these salient words are subjected to carefully crafted modifications, guided by semantic similarity metrics to ensure that the altered text remains coherent and retains its original meaning. Empirical evaluations conducted on diverse text classification datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in generating adversarial examples capable of successfully deceiving state-of-the-art classification models. Comparative analyses with existing adversarial attack techniques further indicate the superiority of the proposed approach in terms of both attack success rate and preservation of text coherence.
Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [888]
标题:  Understanding Computer Networks: A Comprehensive Overview of Types,  Configurations, and the OSI Model
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11296
作者:  Priyanshu Tyagi Rahul Nishant Priyadarshi
备注:  10 pages, 7 figures, 1 Table
Abstract:Computer networks have evolved into an essential component of modern society, facilitating the seamless sharing and dissemination of digital information. This paper explores the fundamental concepts of networking, focusing on the transformative impact of intranets and internets. Intranets, in particular, have emerged as indispensable tools for businesses, enabling them to efficiently manage and distribute information. The rapid adoption of intranets underscores their role in maintaining competitiveness in today's fast-paced business environment. This article provides an overview of networking fundamentals, emphasizing the significance of intranets and internets in modern computing.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [889]
标题:  Order-One Rolling Shutter Cameras
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11295
作者:  Marvin Anas Hahn,  Kathlén Kohn,  Orlando Marigliano,  Tomas Pajdla
备注:  36 pages, 6 figures, 3 ancillary files
Abstract:Rolling shutter (RS) cameras dominate consumer and smartphone markets. Several methods for computing the absolute pose of RS cameras have appeared in the last 20 years, but the relative pose problem has not been fully solved yet. We provide a unified theory for the important class of order-one rolling shutter (RS$_1$) cameras. These cameras generalize the perspective projection to RS cameras, projecting a generic space point to exactly one image point via a rational map. We introduce a new back-projection RS camera model, characterize RS$_1$ cameras, construct explicit parameterizations of such cameras, and determine the image of a space line. We classify all minimal problems for solving the relative camera pose problem with linear RS$_1$ cameras and discover new practical cases. Finally, we show how the theory can be used to explain RS models previously used for absolute pose computation.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [890]
标题:  Multi-Relational Graph Neural Network for Out-of-Domain Link Prediction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11292
作者:  Asma Sattar,  Georgios Deligiorgis,  Marco Trincavelli,  Davide Bacciu
备注:  8 pages, 3 figures, 3 Tables, conference [accepted in IEEE WCCI 2024]
Abstract:Dynamic multi-relational graphs are an expressive relational representation for data enclosing entities and relations of different types, and where relationships are allowed to vary in time. Addressing predictive tasks over such data requires the ability to find structure embeddings that capture the diversity of the relationships involved, as well as their dynamic evolution. In this work, we establish a novel class of challenging tasks for dynamic multi-relational graphs involving out-of-domain link prediction, where the relationship being predicted is not available in the input graph. We then introduce a novel Graph Neural Network model, named GOOD, designed specifically to tackle the out-of-domain generalization problem. GOOD introduces a novel design concept for multi-relation embedding aggregation, based on the idea that good representations are such when it is possible to disentangle the mixing proportions of the different relational embeddings that have produced it. We also propose five benchmarks based on two retail domains, where we show that GOOD can effectively generalize predictions out of known relationship types and achieve state-of-the-art results. Most importantly, we provide insights into problems where out-of-domain prediction might be preferred to an in-domain formulation, that is, where the relationship to be predicted has very few positive examples.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)

**编号**: [891]
标题:  Advanced Knowledge Extraction of Physical Design Drawings, Translation  and conversion to CAD formats using Deep Learning
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11291
作者:  Jesher Joshua M,  Ragav V,  Syed Ibrahim S P
备注:  
Abstract:The maintenance, archiving and usage of the design drawings is cumbersome in physical form in different industries for longer period. It is hard to extract information by simple scanning of drawing sheets. Converting them to their digital formats such as Computer-Aided Design (CAD), with needed knowledge extraction can solve this problem. The conversion of these machine drawings to its digital form is a crucial challenge which requires advanced techniques. This research proposes an innovative methodology utilizing Deep Learning methods. The approach employs object detection model, such as Yolov7, Faster R-CNN, to detect physical drawing objects present in the images followed by, edge detection algorithms such as canny filter to extract and refine the identified lines from the drawing region and curve detection techniques to detect circle. Also ornaments (complex shapes) within the drawings are extracted. To ensure comprehensive conversion, an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) tool is integrated to identify and extract the text elements from the drawings. The extracted data which includes the lines, shapes and text is consolidated and stored in a structured comma separated values(.csv) file format. The accuracy and the efficiency of conversion is evaluated. Through this, conversion can be automated to help organizations enhance their productivity, facilitate seamless collaborations and preserve valuable design information in a digital format easily accessible. Overall, this study contributes to the advancement of CAD conversions, providing accurate results from the translating process. Future research can focus on handling diverse drawing types, enhanced accuracy in shape and line detection and extraction.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Machine Learning (cs.LG)

**编号**: [892]
标题:  ManipVQA: Injecting Robotic Affordance and Physically Grounded  Information into Multi-Modal Large Language Models
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11289
作者:  Siyuan Huang,  Iaroslav Ponomarenko,  Zhengkai Jiang,  Xiaoqi Li,  Xiaobin Hu,  Peng Gao,  Hongsheng Li,  Hao Dong
备注:  Code and dataset will be made publicly available at this https URL
Abstract:The integration of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) with robotic systems has significantly enhanced the ability of robots to interpret and act upon natural language instructions. Despite these advancements, conventional MLLMs are typically trained on generic image-text pairs, lacking essential robotics knowledge such as affordances and physical knowledge, which hampers their efficacy in manipulation tasks. To bridge this gap, we introduce ManipVQA, a novel framework designed to endow MLLMs with Manipulation-centric knowledge through a Visual Question-Answering format. This approach not only encompasses tool detection and affordance recognition but also extends to a comprehensive understanding of physical concepts. Our approach starts with collecting a varied set of images displaying interactive objects, which presents a broad range of challenges in tool object detection, affordance, and physical concept predictions. To seamlessly integrate this robotic-specific knowledge with the inherent vision-reasoning capabilities of MLLMs, we adopt a unified VQA format and devise a fine-tuning strategy that preserves the original vision-reasoning abilities while incorporating the new robotic insights. Empirical evaluations conducted in robotic simulators and across various vision task benchmarks demonstrate the robust performance of ManipVQA. Code and dataset will be made publicly available at this https URL.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO)

**编号**: [893]
标题:  Fast Personalized Text-to-Image Syntheses With Attention Injection
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11284
作者:  Yuxuan Zhang,  Yiren Song,  Jinpeng Yu,  Han Pan,  Zhongliang Jing
备注:  
Abstract:Currently, personalized image generation methods mostly require considerable time to finetune and often overfit the concept resulting in generated images that are similar to custom concepts but difficult to edit by prompts. We propose an effective and fast approach that could balance the text-image consistency and identity consistency of the generated image and reference image. Our method can generate personalized images without any fine-tuning while maintaining the inherent text-to-image generation ability of diffusion models. Given a prompt and a reference image, we merge the custom concept into generated images by manipulating cross-attention and self-attention layers of the original diffusion model to generate personalized images that match the text description. Comprehensive experiments highlight the superiority of our method.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [894]
标题:  Pattern-Based Peephole Optimizations with Java JIT Tests
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11283
作者:  Zhiqiang Zang,  Aditya Thimmaiah,  Milos Gligoric
备注:  12 pages, 9 figures, 3 tables, published in ISSTA 2023 (Research Papers track)
Abstract:We present JOG, a framework that facilitates developing Java JIT peephole optimizations alongside JIT tests. JOG enables developers to write a pattern, in Java itself, that specifies desired code transformations by writing code before and after the optimization, as well as any necessary preconditions. Such patterns can be written in the same way that tests of the optimization are already written in OpenJDK. JOG translates each pattern into C/C++ code that can be integrated as a JIT optimization pass. JOG also generates Java tests for optimizations from patterns. Furthermore, JOG can automatically detect possible shadow relation between a pair of optimizations where the effect of the shadowed optimization is overridden by another. Our evaluation shows that JOG makes it easier to write readable JIT optimizations alongside tests without decreasing the effectiveness of JIT optimizations. We wrote 162 patterns, including 68 existing optimizations in OpenJDK, 92 new optimizations adapted from LLVM, and two new optimizations that we proposed. We opened eight pull requests (PRs) for OpenJDK, including six for new optimizations, one on removing shadowed optimizations, and one for newly generated JIT tests; seven PRs have already been integrated into the master branch of OpenJDK.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Programming Languages (cs.PL)

**编号**: [895]
标题:  Java JIT Testing with Template Extraction
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11281
作者:  Zhiqiang Zang,  Fu-Yao Yu,  Aditya Thimmaiah,  August Shi,  Milos Gligoric
备注:  23 pages, 6 figures, 8 tables, accepted in FSE 2024 (Research Papers track)
Abstract:We present LeJit, a template-based framework for testing Java just-in-time (JIT) compilers. Like recent template-based frameworks, LeJit executes a template -- a program with holes to be filled -- to generate concrete programs given as inputs to Java JIT compilers. LeJit automatically generates template programs from existing Java code by converting expressions to holes, as well as generating necessary glue code (i.e., code that generates instances of non-primitive types) to make generated templates executable. We have successfully used LeJit to test a range of popular Java JIT compilers, revealing five bugs in HotSpot, nine bugs in OpenJ9, and one bug in GraalVM. All of these bugs have been confirmed by Oracle and IBM developers, and 11 of these bugs were previously unknown, including two CVEs (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures). Our comparison with several existing approaches shows that LeJit is complementary to them and is a powerful technique for ensuring Java JIT compiler correctness.
Subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE)

**编号**: [896]
标题:  Hybrid Feedback for Three-dimensional Convex Obstacle Avoidance
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11279
作者:  Mayur Sawant,  Ilia Polushin,  Abdelhamid Tayebi
备注:  12 pages, 5 figures
Abstract:We propose a hybrid feedback control scheme for the autonomous robot navigation problem in three-dimensional environments with arbitrarily-shaped convex obstacles. The proposed hybrid control strategy, which consists in switching between the move-to-target mode and the obstacle-avoidance mode, guarantees global asymptotic stability of the target location in the obstacle-free workspace. We also provide a procedure for the implementation of the proposed hybrid controller in a priori unknown environments and validate its effectiveness through simulation results.
Subjects: Robotics (cs.RO); Systems and Control (eess.SY)

**编号**: [897]
标题:  BrightDreamer: Generic 3D Gaussian Generative Framework for Fast  Text-to-3D Synthesis
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11273
作者:  Lutao Jiang,  Lin Wang
备注:  
Abstract:Text-to-3D synthesis has recently seen intriguing advances by combining the text-to-image models with 3D representation methods, e.g., Gaussian Splatting (GS), via Score Distillation Sampling (SDS). However, a hurdle of existing methods is the low efficiency, per-prompt optimization for a single 3D object. Therefore, it is imperative for a paradigm shift from per-prompt optimization to one-stage generation for any unseen text prompts, which yet remains challenging. A hurdle is how to directly generate a set of millions of 3D Gaussians to represent a 3D object. This paper presents BrightDreamer, an end-to-end single-stage approach that can achieve generalizable and fast (77 ms) text-to-3D generation. Our key idea is to formulate the generation process as estimating the 3D deformation from an anchor shape with predefined positions. For this, we first propose a Text-guided Shape Deformation (TSD) network to predict the deformed shape and its new positions, used as the centers (one attribute) of 3D Gaussians. To estimate the other four attributes (i.e., scaling, rotation, opacity, and SH coefficient), we then design a novel Text-guided Triplane Generator (TTG) to generate a triplane representation for a 3D object. The center of each Gaussian enables us to transform the triplane feature into the four attributes. The generated 3D Gaussians can be finally rendered at 705 frames per second. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method over existing methods. Also, BrightDreamer possesses a strong semantic understanding capability even for complex text prompts. The project code is available at this https URL.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [898]
标题:  Interference Cancellation for OTFS-Based Over-the-Air Computation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11272
作者:  Xinyu Huang,  Henrik Hellstrom,  Carlo Fischione
备注:  6 pages, 4 figures. Accepted by IEEE ICC 2024 Workshop
Abstract:This paper investigates over-the-air computation (AirComp) in the context of multiple-access time-varying multipath channels. We focus on a scenario where devices with high mobility transmit their sensing data to a fusion center (FC) for averaging. To combat the time-varying channel and Doppler effect, each device adopts orthogonal time frequency space (OTFS) modulation. After signals are received by the FC, the aggregated data undergoes demodulation and estimation within the delay-Doppler domain. We leverage the mean squared error (MSE) as a metric for the computational error of OTFS-based AirComp. We then derive the optimal transmit power at each device and signal scaling factor at FC for minimizing MSE. Notably, the performance of OTFS-based AirComp is not only affected by the noise but also by the inter-symbol interference and inter-link interference arising from the multipath channel. To counteract the interference-induced computational errors, we incorporate zero-padding (ZP)-assisted OTFS into AirComp and propose algorithms for interference cancellation. Numerical results underscore the enhanced performance of ZP-assisted OTFS-based AirComp over naive OTFS-based AirComp.
Subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)

**编号**: [899]
标题:  Studying and improving the performance of ETSI ITS contention-based  forwarding (CBF) in urban and highway scenarios: S-FoT+
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11271
作者:  Oscar Amador,  Ignacio Soto,  Maria Calderon,  Manuel Urueña
备注:  
Abstract:This paper evaluates the performance of ETSI ITS Contention-Based Forwarding (CBF) and ETSI Simple GeoBroadcast forwarding while disseminating warning messages over a Geographical Area in highway and urban scenarios. Our experimental evaluation considers the complete ETSI ITS architecture including the Decentralized Congestion Control (DCC) mechanism. We propose an enhanced CBF mechanism, named S-FOT+, which combines several improvements to the ETSI CBF algorithm. S-FoT+ has a similar or better performance than the ETSI forwarding algorithms regarding both reliability and end-to-end delay while requiring much fewer transmissions. The improvements are equally effective and efficient in both urban and highway scenarios with large Destination Areas. Finally, we evaluate the trade-offs that stem from using multi-hop broadcast mechanisms in urban settings with smaller Destination Areas when compared to single-hop broadcast. Results show that multi-hop mechanisms significantly improve coverage at the cost of an increased number of transmissions.
Subjects: Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)

**编号**: [900]
标题:  Bilateral Propagation Network for Depth Completion
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11270
作者:  Jie Tang,  Fei-Peng Tian,  Boshi An,  Jian Li,  Ping Tan
备注:  Accepted by CVPR 2024
Abstract:Depth completion aims to derive a dense depth map from sparse depth measurements with a synchronized color image. Current state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods are predominantly propagation-based, which work as an iterative refinement on the initial estimated dense depth. However, the initial depth estimations mostly result from direct applications of convolutional layers on the sparse depth map. In this paper, we present a Bilateral Propagation Network (BP-Net), that propagates depth at the earliest stage to avoid directly convolving on sparse data. Specifically, our approach propagates the target depth from nearby depth measurements via a non-linear model, whose coefficients are generated through a multi-layer perceptron conditioned on both \emph{radiometric difference} and \emph{spatial distance}. By integrating bilateral propagation with multi-modal fusion and depth refinement in a multi-scale framework, our BP-Net demonstrates outstanding performance on both indoor and outdoor scenes. It achieves SOTA on the NYUv2 dataset and ranks 1st on the KITTI depth completion benchmark at the time of submission. Experimental results not only show the effectiveness of bilateral propagation but also emphasize the significance of early-stage propagation in contrast to the refinement stage. Our code and trained models will be available on the project page.
Subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)

**编号**: [901]
标题:  Localized Orthogonal Decomposition Methods vs. Classical FEM for the  Gross-Pitaevskii Equation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11268
作者:  Christian Döding
备注:  
Abstract:The time-dependent Gross-Pitaevksii equation (GPE) is a nonlinear Schrödinger equation which is used in quantum physics to model the dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates. In this work we consider numerical approximations of the GPE based on a multiscale approach known as the localized orthogonal decomposition. Combined with an energy preserving time integrator one derives a method which is of high order in space and time under mild regularity assumptions. In previous work, the method has been shown to be numerically very efficient compared to first order Lagrange FEM. In this paper, we further investigate the performance of the method and compare it with higher order Lagrange FEM. For rough problems we observe that the novel method performs very efficient and retains its high order, while the classical methods can only compete well for smooth problems.
Subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA)

**编号**: [902]
标题:  Barely Random Algorithms for Metrical Task Systems
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11267
作者:  Romain Cosson,  Laurent Massoulié
备注:  
Abstract:We consider metrical task systems on general metric spaces with $n$ points, and show that any fully randomized algorithm can be turned into a randomized algorithm that uses only $2\log n$ random bits, and achieves the same competitive ratio up to a factor $2$. This provides the first order-optimal barely random algorithms for metrical task systems, i.e. which use a number of random bits that does not depend on the number of requests addressed to the system. We put forward an equivalent view that we call collective metrical task systems where $k$ agents in a metrical task system team up, and suffer the average cost paid by each agent. Our results imply that such team can be $O(\log n^2)$-competitive, as soon as $k\geq n^2$ (in comparison, a single agent is $\Omega(n)$-competitive at best). We discuss implications on various aspects of online decision making such as: distributed systems, transaction costs, and advice complexity, suggesting broad applicability.
Subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Optimization and Control (math.OC)

**编号**: [903]
标题:  Forging the Forger: An Attempt to Improve Authorship Verification via  Data Augmentation
链接:  https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11265
作者:  Silvia Corbara,  Alejandro Moreo
备注:  
Abstract:Authorship Verification (AV) is a text classification task concerned with inferring whether a candidate text has been written by one specific author or by someone else. It has been shown that many AV systems are vulnerable to adversarial attacks, where a malicious author actively tries to fool the classifier by either concealing their writing style, or by imitating the style of another author. In this paper, we investigate the potential benefits of augmenting the classifier training set with (negative) synthetic examples. These synthetic examples are generated to imitate the style of the author of interest. We analyze the improvements in classifier prediction that this augmentation brings to bear in the task of AV in an adversarial setting. In particular, we experiment with three different generator architectures (one based on Recurrent Neural Networks, another based on small-scale transformers, and another based on the popular GPT model) and with two training strategies (one inspired by standard Language Models, and another inspired by Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Networks). We evaluate our hypothesis on five datasets (three of which have been specifically collected to represent an adversarial setting) and using two learning algorithms for the AV classifier (Support Vector Machines and Convolutional Neural Networks). This experimentation has yielded negative results, revealing that, although our methodology proves effective in many adversarial settings, its benefits are too sporadic for a pragmatical application.
Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Computation and Language (cs.CL)

